The word of the LORD came to me again, saying,  
What do you mean by using this proverb concerning the land of Israel: "The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children's teeth are set on edge"?  
As I live, says the Lord GOD, you will no longer have the opportunity to use this proverb in Israel.  
Behold, all souls are mine; the soul of the father is just as the soul of the son: the soul that sins shall die.  
But if a man is just and does what is lawful and right,  
And has not eaten on the mountains, nor lifted his eyes to the idols of the house of Israel, nor defiled his neighbor's wife, nor approached a menstruating woman,  
And has not oppressed anyone, but has restored to the debtor his pledge, has not robbed anyone by violence, has given his bread to the hungry, and has covered the naked with a garment;  
He who has not lent money at interest, nor taken any increase, who has withdrawn his hand from iniquity, and has executed true judgment between man and man,  
Has walked in my statutes and kept my judgments, acting justly; he is just, he shall surely live, says the Lord GOD.  
If he begets a son who is a robber, a shedder of blood, and who commits any of these abominations,  
And does not fulfill any of those duties, but has eaten on the mountains and defiled his neighbor's wife,  
Has oppressed the poor and needy, has robbed by violence, has not restored the pledge, and has lifted his eyes to the idols, committing abomination,  
Has lent money at interest and taken increase: shall he then live? He shall not live; he has committed all these abominations; he shall surely die; his blood shall be upon him.  
Now, if he begets a son who sees all his father's sins which he has done, and considers, and does not do likewise,  
Who has not eaten on the mountains, nor lifted his eyes to the idols of the house of Israel, nor defiled his neighbor's wife,  
Nor oppressed anyone, nor withheld the pledge, nor robbed by violence, but has given his bread to the hungry and covered the naked with a garment,  
Who has withdrawn his hand from the poor, who has not received interest or increase, who has executed my judgments and walked in my statutes; he shall not die for the iniquity of his father; he shall surely live.  
As for his father, because he cruelly oppressed, robbed his brother by violence, and did what is not good among his people, he shall die in his iniquity.  
Yet you say, "Why? Does not the son bear the iniquity of the father?" When the son has done what is lawful and right, and has kept all my statutes, and has done them, he shall surely live.  
The soul that sins shall die. The son shall not bear the iniquity of the father, nor shall the father bear the iniquity of the son: the righteousness of the righteous shall be upon him, and the wickedness of the wicked shall be upon him.  
But if the wicked turns from all his sins that he has committed, and keeps all my statutes, and does what is lawful and right, he shall surely live; he shall not die.  
All his transgressions that he has committed shall not be mentioned to him; in his righteousness that he has done, he shall live.  
Do I take any pleasure at all in the death of the wicked? says the Lord GOD; and not that he should turn from his ways and live?  
But when the righteous turns away from his righteousness and commits iniquity, doing according to all the abominations that the wicked man does, shall he live? All his righteousness that he has done shall not be mentioned; in his trespass that he has trespassed, and in his sin that he has sinned, in them shall he die.  
Yet you say, "The way of the LORD is not equal." Hear now, O house of Israel; is not my way equal? Are not your ways unequal?  
When a righteous man turns away from his righteousness and commits iniquity, he shall die for it; for his iniquity that he has done shall he die.  
Again, when the wicked man turns away from his wickedness that he has committed, and does what is lawful and right, he shall save his soul alive.  
Because he considers and turns away from all his transgressions that he has committed, he shall surely live; he shall not die.  
Yet the house of Israel says, "The way of the LORD is not equal." O house of Israel, are not my ways equal? Are not your ways unequal?  
Therefore, I will judge you, O house of Israel, everyone according to his ways, says the Lord GOD. Repent, and turn from all your transgressions; so iniquity shall not be your ruin.  
Cast away from you all your transgressions by which you have transgressed; and make for yourselves a new heart and a new spirit: for why will you die, O house of Israel?  
For I have no pleasure in the death of him who dies, says the Lord GOD; therefore, turn yourselves and live.