Moreover, the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah a second time while he was still confined in the court of the prison, saying,  
Thus says the LORD, the maker of it, the LORD who formed it to establish it; the LORD is His name.  
Call to me, and I will answer you, and show you great and mighty things that you do not know.  
For thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, concerning the houses of this city and the houses of the kings of Judah, which have been thrown down by the mounts and by the sword;  
They come to fight against the Chaldeans, but it is to fill them with the dead bodies of men whom I have slain in my anger and in my fury, and for all whose wickedness I have hidden my face from this city.  
Behold, I will bring health and healing, and I will heal them, and will reveal to them the abundance of peace and truth.  
And I will restore the captivity of Judah and the captivity of Israel, and will build them up as at first.  
And I will cleanse them from all their iniquity by which they have sinned against me; and I will pardon all their iniquities by which they have sinned and transgressed against me.  
And it shall be to me a name of joy, a praise, and an honor before all the nations of the earth, which shall hear of all the good that I do for them; and they shall fear and tremble for all the goodness and for all the prosperity that I procure for it.  
Thus says the LORD; Again, there shall be heard in this place, which you say shall be desolate, without man and without beast, even in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem, that are desolate, without man, without inhabitant, and without beast,  
The voice of joy, and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom, and the voice of the bride, the voice of those who will say, "Praise the LORD of hosts, for the LORD is good; for His mercy endures forever," and of those who will bring the sacrifice of praise into the house of the LORD. For I will cause the captivity of the land to return, as at first, says the LORD.  
Thus says the LORD of hosts; Again in this place, which is desolate, without man and without beast, and in all its cities, there shall be a habitation of shepherds causing their flocks to lie down.  
In the cities of the mountains, in the cities of the vale, in the cities of the south, in the land of Benjamin, in the places around Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah, the flocks shall again pass under the hands of him who tells them, says the LORD.  
Behold, the days are coming, says the LORD, when I will perform that good thing which I have promised to the house of Israel and to the house of Judah.  
In those days, and at that time, I will cause the Branch of righteousness to grow up for David; and He shall execute judgment and righteousness in the land.  
In those days, Judah will be saved, and Jerusalem will dwell safely; and this is the name by which she shall be called, "The LORD our righteousness."  
For thus says the LORD; David shall never lack a man to sit on the throne of the house of Israel;  
Nor shall the priests, the Levites, lack a man before me to offer burnt offerings, to kindle grain offerings, and to sacrifice continually.  
And the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah, saying,  
Thus says the LORD; If you can break my covenant of the day and my covenant of the night, so that there will not be day and night in their season,  
Then may also my covenant be broken with David my servant, that he should not have a son to reign on his throne; and with the Levites, the priests, my ministers.  
As the host of heaven cannot be numbered, nor the sand of the sea measured, so will I multiply the descendants of David my servant and the Levites who minister to me.  
Moreover, the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah, saying,  
Do you not consider what this people have spoken, saying, "The two families which the LORD has chosen, He has cast them off"? Thus they have despised my people, so that they should no longer be a nation before them.  
Thus says the LORD; If my covenant is not with day and night, and if I have not appointed the ordinances of heaven and earth,  
Then I will cast away the descendants of Jacob and David my servant, so that I will not take any of his descendants to be rulers over the descendants of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob; for I will cause their captivity to return and have mercy on them.