And it came to pass after this that the king of the Ammonites died, and his son Hanun reigned in his place.
Then David said, "I will show kindness to Hanun, the son of Nahash, as his father showed kindness to me." So David sent his servants to comfort him for the loss of his father. David's servants arrived in the land of the Ammonites.
The princes of the Ammonites said to Hanun their lord, "Do you think that David honors your father by sending comforters to you? Hasn't David rather sent his servants to explore the city, spy it out, and overthrow it?"
Therefore, Hanun took David's servants, shaved off half of their beards, cut their garments in the middle, up to their buttocks, and sent them away.
When David was informed, he sent to meet them because the men were greatly ashamed. The king said, "Stay in Jericho until your beards have grown back, and then return."
When the Ammonites saw that they had become a stench to David, they sent and hired the Syrians of Bethrehob and the Syrians of Zoba, twenty thousand foot soldiers, and from King Maacah, a thousand men, and from Ishtob, twelve thousand men.
When David heard of this, he sent Joab and all the mighty men of valor.
The Ammonites came out and arranged their battle at the entrance of the city gate, while the Syrians of Zoba, Rehob, Ishtob, and Maacah were in the field by themselves.
When Joab saw that the battle was against him in front and behind, he selected the best men of Israel and arranged them against the Syrians.
The rest of the people he placed under the command of his brother Abishai, to arrange them against the Ammonites.
He said, "If the Syrians are too strong for me, then you shall help me; but if the Ammonites are too strong for you, then I will come and help you."
"Be strong and let us show ourselves courageous for our people and for the cities of our God; and may the LORD do what seems good to Him."
Joab drew near, along with the people who were with him, to battle against the Syrians, and they fled before him.
When the Ammonites saw that the Syrians had fled, they also fled before Abishai and entered the city. So Joab returned from the Ammonites and came to Jerusalem.
When the Syrians saw that they were defeated before Israel, they regrouped.
Hadarezer sent and brought out the Syrians who were beyond the river, and they came to Helam, with Shobach, the commander of Hadarezer's army, leading them.
When it was reported to David, he gathered all Israel together, crossed the Jordan, and came to Helam. The Syrians arranged themselves against David and fought with him.
The Syrians fled before Israel, and David killed seven hundred charioteers and forty thousand horsemen of the Syrians, and he struck down Shobach, the commander of their army, who died there.
When all the kings who were servants of Hadarezer saw that they were defeated by Israel, they made peace with Israel and served them. Thus, the Syrians were afraid to help the Ammonites any longer.
