For the LORD will show mercy to Jacob, and will once again choose Israel, and place them in their own land: and the foreigners shall join with them, and they shall cling to the house of Jacob.
And the people shall take them and bring them to their place: and the house of Israel shall possess them in the land of the LORD as servants and handmaids: and they shall take captives of those who had taken them captive; and they shall rule over their oppressors.
And it shall come to pass on the day that the LORD gives you rest from your sorrow, and from your fear, and from the hard bondage in which you were made to serve,
That you shall take up this proverb against the king of Babylon, and say, "How the oppressor has ceased! The golden city has come to an end!"
The LORD has broken the staff of the wicked, and the scepter of the rulers.
He who struck the people in wrath with a continuous blow, he who ruled the nations in anger, is persecuted, and no one hinders.
The whole earth is at rest and quiet: they break forth into singing.
Indeed, the fir trees rejoice at your downfall, and the cedars of Lebanon, saying, "Since you have fallen, no lumberjack has come up against us."
Hell from beneath is stirred up to meet you at your coming: it stirs up the dead for you, even all the chief ones of the earth; it has raised up from their thrones all the kings of the nations.
All of them shall speak and say to you, "Are you also become weak like us? Are you become like us?"
Your pomp is brought down to the grave, and the sound of your harps: the worm is spread under you, and the worms cover you.
How you have fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning! How you are cut down to the ground, you who weakened the nations!
For you have said in your heart, "I will ascend into heaven, I will exalt my throne above the stars of God: I will also sit upon the mount of the congregation, on the sides of the north:
I will ascend above the heights of the clouds; I will be like the Most High."
Yet you shall be brought down to hell, to the sides of the pit.
Those who see you shall narrowly look upon you, and consider you, saying, "Is this the man who made the earth tremble, who shook kingdoms;
Who made the world like a wilderness, and destroyed its cities; who did not open the house of his prisoners?"
All the kings of the nations, even all of them, lie in glory, every one in his own house.
But you are cast out of your grave like an abominable branch, and like the clothing of those who are slain, thrust through with a sword, who go down to the stones of the pit; like a carcass trampled underfoot.
You shall not be joined with them in burial, because you have destroyed your land, and slain your people: the seed of evildoers shall never be renowned.
Prepare slaughter for his children for the iniquity of their fathers; that they do not rise, nor possess the land, nor fill the face of the world with cities.
For I will rise up against them, says the LORD of hosts, and cut off from Babylon the name, and remnant, and son, and nephew, says the LORD.
I will also make it a possession for the bittern, and pools of water: and I will sweep it with the broom of destruction, says the LORD of hosts.
The LORD of hosts has sworn, saying, "Surely as I have thought, so shall it come to pass; and as I have purposed, so shall it stand:
That I will break the Assyrian in my land, and upon my mountains tread him underfoot: then shall his yoke depart from off them, and his burden depart from off their shoulders.
This is the purpose that is purposed upon the whole earth: and this is the hand that is stretched out upon all the nations.
For the LORD of hosts has purposed, and who shall annul it? And his hand is stretched out, and who shall turn it back?
In the year that King Ahaz died was this burden.
Rejoice not, O whole Palestina, because the rod of him that struck you is broken: for out of the serpent's root shall come forth a viper, and his fruit shall be a fiery flying serpent.
And the firstborn of the poor shall feed, and the needy shall lie down in safety: and I will kill your root with famine, and he shall slay your remnant.
Howl, O gate; cry, O city; you, O whole Palestina, are dissolved: for there shall come from the north a smoke, and none shall be alone in his appointed times.
What shall one then answer the messengers of the nation? That the LORD has founded Zion, and the poor of his people shall trust in it.
