Cry out loudly, hold nothing back, raise your voice like a trumpet, and reveal to my people their transgressions, and to the house of Jacob their sins.
Yet they seek me daily and take pleasure in knowing my ways, as if they were a nation that practiced righteousness and did not forsake the ordinances of their God: they inquire about my ordinances of justice; they find joy in approaching God.
Why have we fasted, they say, and you do not see? Why have we humbled ourselves, and you take no notice? Look, on the day of your fast, you pursue your own pleasure and exploit all your workers.
Look, you fast for strife and contention, and to strike with the fist of wickedness: you shall not fast as you do today, to make your voice heard on high.
Is this the kind of fast I have chosen? A day for a person to afflict their soul? Is it to bow down like a bulrush and to spread sackcloth and ashes beneath them? Will you call this a fast and a day acceptable to the LORD?
Is this not the fast I have chosen? To loose the chains of wickedness, to undo heavy burdens, to let the oppressed go free, and to break every yoke?
Is it not to share your bread with the hungry and bring the poor who are cast out into your home? When you see the naked, to cover them; and not to hide yourself from your own flesh?
Then your light will break forth like the morning, and your health will spring forth quickly: and your righteousness will go before you; the glory of the LORD will be your rear guard.
Then you will call, and the LORD will answer; you will cry, and He will say, Here I am. If you remove the yoke from among you, the pointing of the finger, and speaking wickedness;
And if you extend your soul to the hungry and satisfy the afflicted soul; then your light will rise in darkness, and your gloom will be like the noon day:
And the LORD will guide you continually, and satisfy your soul in drought, and strengthen your bones: and you will be like a watered garden, and like a spring of water, whose waters do not fail.
And those from among you will rebuild the old waste places: you will raise up the foundations of many generations; and you will be called, The Repairer of the Breach, The Restorer of Paths to Dwell In.
If you turn away your foot from the Sabbath, from doing your own pleasure on my holy day; and call the Sabbath a delight, the holy day of the LORD, honorable; and honor Him, not doing your own ways, nor finding your own pleasure, nor speaking your own words:
Then you will delight yourself in the LORD; and I will cause you to ride on the high places of the earth, and feed you with the heritage of Jacob your father: for the mouth of the LORD has spoken it.
