Here is a revised version of each line for clarity and modern language:

Therefore, set aside all malice, deceit, hypocrisy, envy, and all forms of slander.  
Like newborn babies, crave the pure spiritual milk of the word, so that you may grow up in your salvation:  
If you have tasted that the Lord is good.  
To whom you come, as to a living stone, rejected by men but chosen and precious in the sight of God,  
You also, like living stones, are being built into a spiritual house, a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ.  
For it is also contained in Scripture: "Behold, I lay in Zion a chief cornerstone, chosen and precious; and whoever believes in Him will not be put to shame."  
To you who believe, He is precious; but to those who do not believe, the stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone,  
And a stone that causes people to stumble, and a rock that makes them fall; they stumble because they disobey the message, to which they were also destined.  
But you are a chosen people, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people belonging to God; that you may declare the praises of Him who called you out of darkness into His marvelous light.  
Once you were not a people, but now you are the people of God; once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy.  
Dear friends, I urge you, as foreigners and exiles, to abstain from sinful desires, which wage war against your soul.  
Live such good lives among the pagans that, though they accuse you of doing wrong, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day He visits us.  
Submit yourselves for the Lord's sake to every human authority: whether to the emperor, as the supreme authority,  
Or to governors, who are sent by him to punish those who do wrong and to commend those who do right.  
For it is God's will that by doing good you should silence the ignorant talk of foolish people.  
Live as free people, but do not use your freedom as a cover-up for evil; live as God's servants.  
Show proper respect to everyone: Love the family of believers, fear God, honor the emperor.  
Slaves, in reverent fear of God submit yourselves to your masters, not only to those who are good and considerate, but also to those who are harsh.  
For it is commendable if someone bears up under the pain of unjust suffering because they are conscious of God.  
But how is it to your credit if you receive a beating for doing wrong and endure it? But if you suffer for doing good and you endure it, this is commendable before God.  
To this you were called, because Christ suffered for you, leaving you an example that you should follow in His steps:  
He committed no sin, and no deceit was found in His mouth.  
When they hurled their insults at Him, He did not retaliate; when He suffered, He made no threats. Instead, He entrusted Himself to Him who judges justly.  
He himself bore our sins in His body on the cross, so that we might die to sins and live for righteousness; by His wounds you have been healed.  
For you were like sheep going astray, but now you have returned to the Shepherd and Overseer of your souls.