Here is the edited version of each line:

These are the individuals who came to David at Ziklag while he was still in hiding from Saul, the son of Kish; they were among the mighty men, warriors who assisted in battle.  
They were equipped with bows and could skillfully use both their right and left hands to throw stones and shoot arrows, even being from Saul's kin, the tribe of Benjamin.  
The leaders included Ahiezer and Joash, the sons of Shemaah the Gibeathite; along with Jeziel and Pelet, the sons of Azmaveth; and Berachah and Jehu the Antothite.  
Ismaiah the Gibeonite was a mighty man among the thirty and was in charge of them; alongside him were Jeremiah, Jahaziel, Johanan, and Josabad the Gederathite.  
Eluzai, Jerimoth, Bealiah, Shemariah, and Shephatiah the Haruphite were also among them.  
Elkanah, Jesiah, Azareel, Joezer, and Jashobeam, the Korhites, were included as well.  
Joelah and Zebadiah were the sons of Jeroham from Gedor.  
Among the Gadites, there were men of valor who separated themselves to join David in the stronghold in the wilderness, skilled warriors fit for battle, capable of wielding shields and bucklers, with faces like lions and swiftness like gazelles on the mountains.  
Ezer was the first, Obadiah the second, Eliab the third,  
Mishmannah the fourth, Jeremiah the fifth,  
Attai the sixth, Eliel the seventh,  
Johanan the eighth, Elzabad the ninth,  
Jeremiah the tenth, and Machbanai the eleventh.  
These were the sons of Gad, captains of the army: the least among them commanded a hundred, while the greatest commanded a thousand.  
These are the ones who crossed the Jordan in the first month when it overflowed its banks; they routed all those in the valleys, both to the east and to the west.  
Children of Benjamin and Judah came to the stronghold to join David.  
David went out to meet them and said, "If you have come to me in peace to help me, my heart will be united with you; but if you have come to betray me to my enemies, seeing there is no wrongdoing in my hands, may the God of our ancestors see this and rebuke it."  
Then the Spirit came upon Amasai, chief of the captains, and he declared, "We are yours, David, and we are on your side, son of Jesse; peace, peace be to you, and peace to your helpers; for your God helps you." David welcomed them and appointed them as captains of his band.  
Some from Manasseh joined David when he came with the Philistines to battle against Saul, but they did not assist him, for the lords of the Philistines, upon counsel, sent him away, saying, "He will turn against his master Saul, putting our heads in jeopardy."  
As he traveled to Ziklag, men from Manasseh joined him: Adnah, Jozabad, Jediael, Michael, Jozabad, Elihu, and Zilthai, captains of thousands from Manasseh.  
They supported David against the raiding bands, for they were all mighty men of valor and captains in the army.  
During that time, day by day, more men came to David to help him, until it became a great army, like the army of God.  
These are the numbers of the troops ready for battle who came to David at Hebron to turn the kingdom of Saul over to him, as the LORD had spoken.  
The children of Judah who bore shields and spears numbered six thousand eight hundred, fully equipped for war.  
From the children of Simeon, seven thousand one hundred mighty men of valor for battle.  
The children of Levi numbered four thousand six hundred.  
Jehoiada was the leader of the Aaronites, accompanied by three thousand seven hundred.  
Zadok, a young man of valor, had twenty-two captains from his father's house.  
From the children of Benjamin, the kin of Saul, there were three thousand, for until then, the majority had maintained the guard of Saul's house.  
The children of Ephraim numbered twenty thousand eight hundred, mighty men of valor, renowned throughout their families.  
From the half-tribe of Manasseh, eighteen thousand were designated by name to come and make David king.  
The children of Issachar were men who understood the times and knew what Israel should do; their leaders numbered two hundred, and all their brethren were at their command.  
From Zebulun, there were fifty thousand who went forth to battle, skilled in war and equipped with all instruments of war; they were steadfast and not of divided hearts.  
From Naphtali, there were a thousand captains, and with them were thirty-seven thousand equipped with shields and spears.  
The Danites, skilled in war, numbered twenty-eight thousand six hundred.  
From Asher, there were forty thousand who went forth to battle, experienced in warfare.  
On the other side of the Jordan, the Reubenites, Gadites, and half-tribe of Manasseh brought all manner of weapons for battle, totaling one hundred twenty thousand.  
All these men of war, who could maintain their ranks, came with a perfect heart to Hebron to make David king over all Israel; and all the rest of Israel were united in heart to make David king.  
They stayed with David for three days, eating and drinking, for their relatives had prepared provisions for them.  
Moreover, those near them, including the men of Issachar, Zebulun, and Naphtali, brought food on donkeys, camels, mules, and oxen, along with meat, meal, cakes of figs, raisins, wine, oil, oxen, and sheep in abundance, for there was great joy in Israel.