O give thanks to the LORD, for He is good; His mercy endures forever.
Let the redeemed of the LORD say so, whom He has redeemed from the hand of the enemy.
And gathered them from the lands, from the east and the west, from the north and the south.
They wandered in the wilderness in a solitary way; they found no city to dwell in.
Hungry and thirsty, their souls fainted within them.
Then they cried out to the LORD in their trouble, and He delivered them from their distresses.
And He led them forth by the right way, that they might go to a city of habitation.
Oh, that men would praise the LORD for His goodness and for His wonderful works to the children of men!
For He satisfies the longing soul and fills the hungry soul with goodness.
Such as sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, bound in affliction and iron;
Because they rebelled against the words of God and despised the counsel of the Most High.
Therefore, He brought down their hearts with labor; they fell down, and there was none to help.
Then they cried out to the LORD in their trouble, and He saved them from their distresses.
He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death and broke their chains asunder.
Oh, that men would praise the LORD for His goodness and for His wonderful works to the children of men!
For He has broken the gates of brass and cut the bars of iron in two.
Fools, because of their transgressions and iniquities, are afflicted.
Their souls abhor all manner of food, and they draw near to the gates of death.
Then they cry out to the LORD in their trouble, and He saves them from their distresses.
He sent His word and healed them and delivered them from their destructions.
Oh, that men would praise the LORD for His goodness and for His wonderful works to the children of men!
And let them offer the sacrifices of thanksgiving and declare His works with rejoicing.
Those who go down to the sea in ships, who do business in great waters;
These see the works of the LORD and His wonders in the deep.
For He commands and raises the stormy wind, which lifts up the waves thereof.
They mount up to the heavens, they go down again to the depths; their souls melt because of trouble.
They reel to and fro and stagger like a drunken man and are at their wit's end.
Then they cry out to the LORD in their trouble, and He brings them out of their distresses.
He makes the storm a calm, so that the waves thereof are still.
Then they are glad because they are quiet; so He brings them to their desired haven.
Oh, that men would praise the LORD for His goodness and for His wonderful works to the children of men!
Let them exalt Him also in the congregation of the people and praise Him in the assembly of the elders.
He turns rivers into a wilderness and the watersprings into dry ground;
A fruitful land into barrenness for the wickedness of those who dwell therein.
He turns the wilderness into standing water and dry ground into watersprings.
And there He makes the hungry to dwell, that they may prepare a city for habitation;
And sow the fields and plant vineyards, which may yield fruits of increase.
He blesses them also, so that they are multiplied greatly and does not allow their cattle to decrease.
Again, they are diminished and brought low through oppression, affliction, and sorrow.
He pours contempt upon princes and causes them to wander in the wilderness where there is no way.
Yet He sets the poor on high from affliction and makes them families like a flock.
The righteous shall see it and rejoice, and all iniquity shall stop her mouth.
Whoever is wise and observes these things, they shall understand the lovingkindness of the LORD.
