The word of the LORD came to me again, saying,  
"Son of man, there were two women, the daughters of one mother.  
They engaged in promiscuity in Egypt; they indulged in their youth: their breasts were pressed, and their virginity was bruised.  
Their names were Aholah the elder and Aholibah her sister: they were mine, and they bore sons and daughters. Their names signify; Samaria is Aholah, and Jerusalem is Aholibah.  
Aholah acted as a harlot while she was mine; she became infatuated with her lovers, the Assyrians, her neighbors,  
Who were dressed in blue, captains and rulers, all of them desirable young men, horsemen riding on horses.  
Thus, she engaged in her promiscuity with them, with all the chosen men of Assyria, and with all whom she desired: she defiled herself with all their idols.  
She did not abandon her promiscuity from Egypt: for in her youth, they lay with her, bruising her virginity, and pouring their promiscuity upon her.  
Therefore, I delivered her into the hands of her lovers, into the hands of the Assyrians, whom she desired.  
These uncovered her nakedness: they took her sons and daughters, and killed her with the sword: she became infamous among women; for they executed judgment upon her.  
When her sister Aholibah saw this, she became more corrupt in her excessive love than she, and in her promiscuity more than her sister.  
She became infatuated with the Assyrians, her neighbors, captains and rulers dressed most splendidly, horsemen riding on horses, all of them desirable young men.  
Then I saw that she was defiled, that they both followed the same path,  
And that she increased her promiscuity: for when she saw men portrayed on the wall, the images of the Chaldeans depicted in vermilion,  
Girded with belts around their waists, splendidly dressed upon their heads, all of them princes to behold, after the manner of the Babylonians of Chaldea, the land of their birth:  
As soon as she saw them with her eyes, she became infatuated with them, and sent messengers to them in Chaldea.  
The Babylonians came to her into the bed of love, and they defiled her with their promiscuity, and she was polluted with them, and her mind was alienated from them.  
So she revealed her promiscuity and uncovered her nakedness: then my mind was alienated from her, as it was from her sister.  
Yet she multiplied her promiscuity, recalling the days of her youth, when she had acted as a harlot in the land of Egypt.  
For she became infatuated with their lovers, whose flesh is like the flesh of donkeys, and whose issue is like the issue of horses.  
Thus, you recalled the lewdness of your youth, in bruising your breasts by the Egyptians for the paps of your youth.  
Therefore, O Aholibah, thus says the Lord GOD; Behold, I will raise up your lovers against you, from whom your mind is alienated, and I will bring them against you on every side;  
The Babylonians, and all the Chaldeans, Pekod, Shoa, Koa, and all the Assyrians with them: all of them desirable young men, captains and rulers, great lords and renowned, all of them riding on horses.  
They shall come against you with chariots, wagons, and wheels, and with an assembly of people, which shall set against you buckler, shield, and helmet all around: and I will set judgment before them, and they shall judge you according to their judgments.  
I will set my jealousy against you, and they shall deal furiously with you: they shall take away your nose and your ears; and your remnant shall fall by the sword: they shall take your sons and your daughters; and your residue shall be devoured by fire.  
They shall also strip you of your clothes and take away your beautiful jewels.  
Thus, I will make your lewdness cease from you, and your promiscuity brought from the land of Egypt: so that you shall not lift up your eyes to them, nor remember Egypt anymore.  
For thus says the Lord GOD; Behold, I will deliver you into the hands of those whom you hate, into the hands of those from whom your mind is alienated:  
They shall deal with you hatefully, and shall take away all your labor, and shall leave you naked and bare: and the nakedness of your promiscuity shall be uncovered, both your lewdness and your promiscuity.  
I will do these things to you because you have gone a-whoring after the heathen, and because you are polluted with their idols.  
You have walked in the way of your sister; therefore, I will give her cup into your hand.  
Thus says the Lord GOD; You shall drink of your sister's cup deep and large: you shall be laughed to scorn and held in derision; it contains much.  
You shall be filled with drunkenness and sorrow, with the cup of astonishment and desolation, with the cup of your sister Samaria.  
You shall even drink it and suck it out, and you shall break the shards thereof, and pluck off your own breasts: for I have spoken it, says the Lord GOD.  
Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD; Because you have forgotten me and cast me behind your back, therefore bear also your lewdness and your promiscuity.  
The LORD said moreover to me; Son of man, will you judge Aholah and Aholibah? Yes, declare to them their abominations;  
That they have committed adultery, and blood is on their hands, and with their idols have they committed adultery, and have also caused their sons, whom they bore to me, to pass through the fire, to devour them.  
Moreover, this they have done to me: they have defiled my sanctuary on the same day, and have profaned my sabbaths.  
For when they had slain their children to their idols, then they came the same day into my sanctuary to profane it; and, behold, thus have they done in the midst of my house.  
Furthermore, you have sent for men to come from afar, to whom a messenger was sent; and, behold, they came: for whom you did wash yourself, painted your eyes, and adorned yourself with ornaments,  
And sat upon a stately bed, and a table prepared before it, whereupon you have set my incense and my oil.  
And a voice of a multitude being at ease was with her: and with the men of the common sort were brought Sabeans from the wilderness, who put bracelets upon their hands and beautiful crowns upon their heads.  
Then I said to her that was old in adulteries, "Will they now commit promiscuity with her, and she with them?"  
Yet they went in to her, as they go in to a woman that plays the harlot: so they went in to Aholah and Aholibah, the lewd women.  
And the righteous men shall judge them after the manner of adulteresses, and after the manner of women that shed blood; because they are adulteresses, and blood is on their hands.  
For thus says the Lord GOD; I will bring a company upon them, and will give them to be removed and spoiled.  
The company shall stone them with stones, and dispatch them with their swords; they shall slay their sons and their daughters, and burn up their houses with fire.  
Thus will I cause lewdness to cease out of the land, that all women may be taught not to follow your lewdness.  
They shall recompense your lewdness upon you, and you shall bear the sins of your idols: and you shall know that I am the Lord GOD.