And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,  
Speak to the children of Israel, and let them bring me an offering: from every man who gives it willingly with his heart, you shall accept my offering.  
And this is the offering you shall receive from them: gold, silver, and bronze,  
And blue, purple, scarlet, fine linen, and goat's hair,  
And rams' skins dyed red, badger skins, and acacia wood,  
Oil for the light, spices for the anointing oil, and for sweet incense,  
Onyx stones, and stones to be set in the ephod and in the breastplate.  
And let them make me a sanctuary, that I may dwell among them.  
According to all that I show you, after the pattern of the tabernacle and the pattern of all its instruments, so shall you make it.  
And they shall make an ark of acacia wood: two and a half cubits shall be its length, a cubit and a half its breadth, and a cubit and a half its height.  
And you shall overlay it with pure gold, inside and out you shall overlay it, and you shall make a gold crown around it.  
And you shall cast four rings of gold for it, and put them in the four corners; two rings shall be on one side and two rings on the other side.  
And you shall make staves of acacia wood and overlay them with gold.  
And you shall put the staves into the rings on the sides of the ark, that the ark may be carried with them.  
The staves shall be in the rings of the ark; they shall not be taken from it.  
And you shall put into the ark the testimony which I shall give you.  
And you shall make a mercy seat of pure gold: two and a half cubits shall be its length and a cubit and a half its breadth.  
And you shall make two cherubim of gold, of beaten work you shall make them, at the two ends of the mercy seat.  
Make one cherub at one end and the other cherub at the other end; of the mercy seat you shall make the cherubim at its two ends.  
And the cherubim shall stretch out their wings on high, covering the mercy seat with their wings, and their faces shall look toward one another; toward the mercy seat shall the faces of the cherubim be.  
And you shall put the mercy seat on top of the ark, and in the ark you shall put the testimony that I shall give you.  
And there I will meet with you, and I will speak with you from above the mercy seat, from between the two cherubim that are on the ark of the testimony, about all things which I will give you in commandment to the children of Israel.  
You shall also make a table of acacia wood: two cubits shall be its length, a cubit its breadth, and a cubit and a half its height.  
And you shall overlay it with pure gold, and make a gold crown around it.  
And you shall make for it a border of a handbreadth all around, and you shall make a golden crown for the border all around.  
And you shall make for it four rings of gold, and put the rings in the four corners that are on its four feet.  
The rings shall be close to the border for places of the staves to bear the table.  
And you shall make the staves of acacia wood and overlay them with gold, that the table may be carried with them.  
And you shall make its dishes, its spoons, its covers, and its bowls, to cover with: of pure gold you shall make them.  
And you shall set the showbread on the table before me always.  
And you shall make a lampstand of pure gold; of beaten work shall the lampstand be made: its shaft, its branches, its bowls, its knobs, and its flowers shall be of the same.  
And six branches shall come out of the sides of it; three branches of the lampstand on one side and three branches of the lampstand on the other side.  
Three bowls made like almonds, with a knop and a flower in one branch; and three bowls made like almonds in the other branch, with a knop and a flower: so in the six branches that come out of the lampstand.  
And in the lampstand shall be four bowls made like almonds, with their knobs and their flowers.  
And there shall be a knop under two branches of the same, and a knop under two branches of the same, and a knop under two branches of the same, according to the six branches that proceed from the lampstand.  
Their knobs and their branches shall be of the same; all of it shall be one beaten work of pure gold.  
And you shall make its seven lamps, and they shall light its lamps, that they may give light in front of it.  
And its tongs and its snuffers shall be of pure gold.  
Of a talent of pure gold shall it be made, with all these vessels.  
And see that you make them according to the pattern which was shown you on the mountain.