And it came to pass a long time after the LORD had granted Israel rest from all their surrounding enemies, that Joshua grew old and advanced in age.
Joshua summoned all of Israel, along with their elders, leaders, judges, and officers, and said to them, "I am old and advanced in age."
"You have witnessed all that the LORD your God has done to these nations on your behalf; for the LORD your God is the one who has fought for you."
"Behold, I have allocated to you by lot the remaining nations as an inheritance for your tribes, from the Jordan River, including all the nations I have cut off, up to the great sea to the west."
"And the LORD your God will drive them out before you and remove them from your sight; you shall possess their land, as the LORD your God has promised you."
"Therefore, be very courageous to observe and do all that is written in the book of the law of Moses, turning neither to the right nor to the left."
"Do not associate with these nations that remain among you; do not mention the names of their gods, nor make oaths by them, nor serve them, nor bow down to them."
"But hold fast to the LORD your God, as you have done to this day."
"For the LORD has driven out great and powerful nations before you; yet, no one has been able to stand against you to this day."
"One of you shall chase a thousand, for the LORD your God fights for you, as He has promised."
"Take careful heed to yourselves, that you love the LORD your God."
"But if you turn back and cling to the remnant of these nations that remain among you, and intermarry with them, and associate with them, and they with you,"
"Know for certain that the LORD your God will no longer drive out any of these nations before you; they will become snares and traps for you, and whips on your sides, and thorns in your eyes, until you perish from this good land which the LORD your God has given you."
"And behold, this day I am going the way of all the earth; and you know in your hearts and souls that not one thing has failed of all the good things which the LORD your God spoke concerning you; all have come to pass, and not one thing has failed."
"Therefore, it shall come to pass that as all the good things have come upon you, which the LORD your God promised you, so the LORD will bring upon you all the evil things, until He has destroyed you from this good land which the LORD your God has given you."
"When you have transgressed the covenant of the LORD your God, which He commanded you, and have gone and served other gods, and bowed down to them, then the anger of the LORD will be kindled against you, and you shall perish quickly from the good land which He has given you."
