And it came to pass on the second Sabbath after the first that He walked through the cornfields; and His disciples plucked the ears of corn and ate, rubbing them in their hands.  
And certain of the Pharisees said to them, "Why do you do what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath?"  
And Jesus answered them, "Have you not read what David did when he was hungry, he and those who were with him?  
How he went into the house of God, took and ate the showbread, and gave also to those with him, which is not lawful to eat except for the priests alone?"  
And He said to them, "The Son of Man is also Lord of the Sabbath."  
And it came to pass on another Sabbath that He entered the synagogue and taught; and there was a man whose right hand was withered.  
And the scribes and Pharisees watched Him closely, whether He would heal on the Sabbath, so that they might find an accusation against Him.  
But He knew their thoughts and said to the man with the withered hand, "Rise up and stand in the midst." And he arose and stood forth.  
Then Jesus said to them, "I will ask you one thing: Is it lawful on the Sabbath to do good or to do evil? To save life or to destroy it?"  
And looking around at them all, He said to the man, "Stretch forth your hand." And he did so, and his hand was restored whole as the other.  
And they were filled with madness and discussed with one another what they might do to Jesus.  
And it came to pass in those days that He went out to a mountain to pray and continued all night in prayer to God.  
And when it was day, He called His disciples to Him and chose twelve of them, whom He also named apostles:  
Simon (whom He also named Peter), and his brother Andrew, James and John, Philip and Bartholomew,  
Matthew and Thomas, James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon called the Zealot,  
And Judas the brother of James, and Judas Iscariot, who also became a traitor.  
And He came down with them and stood on a level place, with a crowd of His disciples and a great multitude of people from all Judea and Jerusalem, and from the seacoast of Tyre and Sidon, who came to hear Him and to be healed of their diseases;  
And those who were troubled with unclean spirits were healed.  
And the whole multitude sought to touch Him, for power went out from Him and healed them all.  
And He lifted up His eyes toward His disciples and said, "Blessed are you poor, for yours is the kingdom of God.  
Blessed are you who hunger now, for you shall be filled. Blessed are you who weep now, for you shall laugh.  
Blessed are you when men hate you, and when they exclude you and revile you, and cast out your name as evil for the Son of Man's sake.  
Rejoice in that day and leap for joy, for behold, your reward is great in heaven, for in the same manner their fathers did to the prophets.  
But woe to you who are rich, for you have received your consolation.  
Woe to you who are full, for you shall hunger. Woe to you who laugh now, for you shall mourn and weep.  
Woe to you when all men speak well of you, for so did their fathers to the false prophets.  
But I say to you who hear: Love your enemies, do good to those who hate you,  
Bless those who curse you, and pray for those who spitefully use you.  
And to him who strikes you on the one cheek, offer the other also; and from him who takes away your cloak, do not withhold your tunic either.  
Give to everyone who asks of you, and from him who takes away your goods, do not ask them back.  
And just as you want men to do to you, you also do to them likewise.  
For if you love those who love you, what credit is that to you? For even sinners love those who love them.  
And if you do good to those who do good to you, what credit is that to you? For even sinners do the same.  
And if you lend to those from whom you hope to receive back, what credit is that to you? For even sinners lend to sinners, to receive as much back.  
But love your enemies, do good, and lend, hoping for nothing in return; and your reward will be great, and you will be sons of the Most High, for He is kind to the unthankful and evil.  
Therefore be merciful, just as your Father also is merciful.  
Judge not, and you shall not be judged; condemn not, and you shall not be condemned; forgive, and you will be forgiven.  
Give, and it will be given to you; good measure, pressed down, shaken together, and running over will be put into your bosom. For with the same measure that you use, it will be measured back to you."  
And He spoke a parable to them: "Can the blind lead the blind? Will they not both fall into the ditch?  
A disciple is not above his teacher, but everyone who is perfectly trained will be like his teacher.  
And why do you look at the speck in your brother's eye, but do not perceive the plank in your own eye?  
Or how can you say to your brother, 'Brother, let me remove the speck that is in your eye,' when you yourself do not see the plank that is in your own eye? Hypocrite! First remove the plank from your own eye, and then you will see clearly to remove the speck that is in your brother's eye.  
For a good tree does not bear bad fruit, nor does a bad tree bear good fruit.  
For every tree is known by its own fruit. For men do not gather figs from thorns, nor do they gather grapes from a bramble bush.  
A good man out of the good treasure of his heart brings forth what is good, and an evil man out of the evil treasure of his heart brings forth what is evil. For out of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaks.  
But why do you call Me, 'Lord, Lord,' and do not do the things which I say?  
Whoever comes to Me, and hears My sayings and does them, I will show you whom he is like:  
He is like a man building a house, who dug deep and laid the foundation on the rock. And when the flood arose, the stream beat vehemently against that house, and could not shake it, for it was founded on the rock.  
But he who heard and did nothing is like a man who built a house on the earth without a foundation, against which the stream beat vehemently, and immediately it fell. And the ruin of that house was great."