And it came to pass, when Saul returned from pursuing the Philistines, that it was reported to him, saying, "Behold, David is in the wilderness of Engedi."
Then Saul took three thousand chosen men from all Israel and went to search for David and his men among the rocks of the wild goats.
He came to the sheepfolds along the way, where there was a cave; and Saul went in to relieve himself, while David and his men remained in the recesses of the cave.
The men of David said to him, "Behold, the day of which the LORD spoke to you, saying, 'I will deliver your enemy into your hand, that you may do to him as it seems good to you.'" Then David arose and secretly cut off a corner of Saul's robe.
Afterward, David's heart troubled him because he had cut off the corner of Saul's robe.
He said to his men, "The LORD forbid that I should do this thing to my master, the LORD's anointed, to stretch out my hand against him, for he is the anointed of the LORD."
So David restrained his men with these words and did not allow them to rise against Saul. But Saul got up from the cave and went on his way.
David also arose afterward, went out of the cave, and called after Saul, saying, "My lord the king!" When Saul looked behind him, David bowed with his face to the ground.
David said to Saul, "Why do you listen to the words of men who say, 'David seeks your harm'?
Behold, this day your eyes have seen that the LORD delivered you today into my hand in the cave, and some urged me to kill you; but I spared you, and said, 'I will not put forth my hand against my lord, for he is the LORD's anointed.'
Moreover, my father, see, yes, see the corner of your robe in my hand! For in that I cut off the corner of your robe and did not kill you, know and see that there is neither evil nor transgression in my hand, and I have not sinned against you; yet you hunt my soul to take it.
The LORD judge between me and you, and the LORD avenge me of you; but my hand shall not be upon you.
As the ancient proverb says, 'Wickedness proceeds from the wicked,' but my hand shall not be upon you.
After whom has the king of Israel come out? After whom do you pursue? After a dead dog, after a flea.
The LORD therefore be the judge, and judge between me and you, and see, and plead my cause, and deliver me from your hand.
When David had finished speaking these words to Saul, Saul said, "Is this your voice, my son David?" And Saul lifted up his voice and wept.
He said to David, "You are more righteous than I, for you have rewarded me with good, whereas I have rewarded you with evil.
And you have shown this day how you have dealt well with me; for when the LORD had delivered me into your hand, you did not kill me.
For if a man finds his enemy, will he let him go away unharmed? Therefore, may the LORD reward you with good for what you have done to me this day.
And now, behold, I know well that you shall surely be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in your hand.
Swear now therefore to me by the LORD that you will not cut off my descendants after me, and that you will not destroy my name from my father's house."
And David swore to Saul. And Saul went home, but David and his men went up to the stronghold.
