And Elijah the Tishbite, who was among the inhabitants of Gilead, said to Ahab, "As the LORD God of Israel lives, before whom I stand, there will be neither dew nor rain these years, except according to my word."
Then the word of the LORD came to him, saying,
"Depart from here and turn eastward; hide yourself by the brook Cherith, which is east of the Jordan.
You shall drink from the brook, and I have commanded the ravens to feed you there."
So he went and did according to the word of the LORD; he dwelt by the brook Cherith, which is east of the Jordan.
The ravens brought him bread and meat in the morning, and bread and meat in the evening; he drank from the brook.
But after a while, the brook dried up because there had been no rain in the land.
Then the word of the LORD came to him, saying,
"Arise, go to Zarephath, which belongs to Sidon, and dwell there; behold, I have commanded a widow there to provide for you."
So he arose and went to Zarephath. When he arrived at the city gate, behold, a widow was there gathering sticks. He called to her and said, "Please bring me a little water in a vessel, that I may drink."
As she was going to get it, he called to her again, saying, "Please bring me a morsel of bread in your hand."
She replied, "As the LORD your God lives, I have no bread, only a handful of flour in a jar and a little oil in a jug. I am gathering a few sticks to take home and prepare a meal for myself and my son, that we may eat it and die."
Elijah said to her, "Do not fear; go and do as you have said. But first make me a small cake from it and bring it to me, and afterward make some for yourself and your son.
For thus says the LORD God of Israel: 'The jar of flour shall not be used up, nor shall the jug of oil run dry until the day the LORD sends rain on the earth.'"
So she went away and did according to the word of Elijah; she, he, and her household ate for many days.
The jar of flour was not used up, nor did the jug of oil run dry, according to the word of the LORD spoken by Elijah.
After these things, the son of the woman, the mistress of the house, became ill; his illness was so severe that there was no breath left in him.
She said to Elijah, "What do you have against me, O man of God? Have you come to remind me of my sin and kill my son?"
He said to her, "Give me your son." He took him from her arms, carried him up to the upper room where he was staying, and laid him on his own bed.
Then he cried out to the LORD, saying, "O LORD my God, have you brought tragedy upon the widow with whom I am staying by killing her son?"
He stretched himself out on the child three times and cried out to the LORD, "O LORD my God, let this child's life return to him!"
The LORD heard Elijah's cry, and the child's life returned to him, and he revived.
Elijah took the child and brought him down from the room into the house and gave him to his mother. He said, "Look, your son is alive!"
Then the woman said to Elijah, "Now I know that you are a man of God and that the word of the LORD in your mouth is the truth."
