Then the daughters of Zelophehad, the son of Hepher, the son of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh, from the families of Manasseh, the son of Joseph, approached. These are the names of his daughters: Mahlah, Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah.

They stood before Moses, Eleazar the priest, the princes, and the entire congregation at the entrance of the tabernacle, saying,

"Our father died in the wilderness; he was not among those who gathered against the LORD in the company of Korah. He died for his own sin and had no sons.

Why should our father's name be removed from his family because he has no son? Therefore, give us a possession among the brothers of our father."

Moses brought their case before the LORD.

The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,

"The daughters of Zelophehad are right in what they say: you shall surely give them an inheritance among their father's brothers, and you shall pass their father's inheritance to them.

Speak to the children of Israel, saying, 'If a man dies and has no son, then you shall pass his inheritance to his daughter.

If he has no daughter, then you shall give his inheritance to his brothers.

If he has no brothers, then you shall give his inheritance to his father's brothers.

If his father has no brothers, then you shall give his inheritance to the nearest kinsman of his family, and he shall possess it. This shall be a statute of judgment for the children of Israel, as the LORD commanded Moses.'

The LORD said to Moses, 'Go up to this mountain Abarim and see the land that I have given to the children of Israel.

When you have seen it, you also shall be gathered to your people, as Aaron your brother was gathered.

For you rebelled against my command in the wilderness of Zin, in the strife of the congregation, to sanctify me at the water before their eyes. This is the water of Meribah in Kadesh, in the wilderness of Zin.'

Moses spoke to the LORD, saying,

'Let the LORD, the God of the spirits of all flesh, appoint a man over the congregation,

who may go out before them and come in before them, who may lead them out and bring them in, so that the congregation of the LORD will not be like sheep without a shepherd.'

The LORD said to Moses, 'Take Joshua, the son of Nun, a man in whom is the Spirit, and lay your hand upon him;

Set him before Eleazar the priest and all the congregation, and give him a charge in their sight.

Put some of your honor upon him, so that all the congregation of the children of Israel may obey him.

He shall stand before Eleazar the priest, who shall inquire for him by the judgment of Urim before the LORD. At his command, they shall go out, and at his command, they shall come in, both he and all the children of Israel with him, even the entire congregation.'

Moses did as the LORD commanded him: he took Joshua, set him before Eleazar the priest, and all the congregation.

He laid his hands upon him and gave him a charge, as the LORD commanded through Moses.