As the days of David approached for him to die, he charged his son Solomon, saying,  
"I am going the way of all the earth; be strong and show yourself a man.  
Keep the charge of the LORD your God, walk in His ways, keep His statutes, commandments, judgments, and testimonies, as written in the law of Moses, so that you may prosper in all you do and wherever you turn.  
This is so that the LORD may fulfill His promise to me, saying, 'If your children heed their way, walking before me in truth with all their heart and soul, there will not fail you a man on the throne of Israel.'  
Furthermore, you know what Joab son of Zeruiah did to me, and what he did to the two captains of Israel's hosts, Abner son of Ner and Amasa son of Jether, whom he killed, shedding blood in peace and staining his belt and shoes with innocent blood.  
Act according to your wisdom, and do not let his gray hair go down to the grave in peace.  
But show kindness to the sons of Barzillai the Gileadite, and let them eat at your table, for they came to me when I fled from your brother Absalom.  
And behold, you have Shimei son of Gera, a Benjamite from Bahurim, who cursed me with a grievous curse when I went to Mahanaim; but he came down to meet me at the Jordan, and I swore to him by the LORD, saying, 'I will not put you to death with the sword.'  
Now, do not hold him guiltless, for you are a wise man and know what you ought to do to him; but bring his gray hair down to the grave with blood."  
So David slept with his fathers and was buried in the city of David.  
David reigned over Israel for forty years: seven years in Hebron and thirty-three years in Jerusalem.  
Then Solomon sat on the throne of his father David, and his kingdom was established greatly.  
Adonijah son of Haggith came to Bathsheba, the mother of Solomon. She asked, "Do you come peaceably?" He replied, "Peaceably."  
He added, "I have something to say to you." She said, "Speak on."  
He said, "You know that the kingdom was mine, and all Israel set their faces on me to reign; however, the kingdom has turned and become my brother's, for it was his from the LORD.  
Now I ask one petition of you; do not deny me." She said, "Say on."  
He said, "Please speak to King Solomon (for he will not refuse you) to give me Abishag the Shunammite as a wife."  
Bathsheba replied, "Very well; I will speak to the king for you."  
Bathsheba went to King Solomon to speak on behalf of Adonijah. The king rose to meet her, bowed to her, sat on his throne, and had a seat set for his mother, who sat at his right hand.  
Then she said, "I desire one small petition of you; please do not refuse me." The king said, "Ask, my mother; for I will not refuse you."  
She said, "Let Abishag the Shunammite be given to Adonijah your brother as a wife."  
King Solomon answered his mother, "Why do you ask for Abishag the Shunammite for Adonijah? Ask for him the kingdom as well, for he is my elder brother; even for him, for Abiathar the priest, and for Joab son of Zeruiah."  
Then King Solomon swore by the LORD, saying, "God do so to me, and more also, if Adonijah has not spoken this word against his own life.  
Now, as the LORD lives, who has established me and set me on the throne of my father David, and who has made me a house as He promised, Adonijah shall be put to death this day."  
King Solomon sent Benaiah son of Jehoiada, and he struck him down so that he died.  
To Abiathar the priest, the king said, "Go to Anathoth, to your own fields; you are worthy of death, but I will not put you to death at this time because you carried the ark of the LORD God before my father David and because you have been afflicted in all that my father was afflicted."  
So Solomon expelled Abiathar from being priest to the LORD, fulfilling the word of the LORD concerning the house of Eli in Shiloh.  
Then news came to Joab, for Joab had sided with Adonijah, though he had not sided with Absalom. Joab fled to the tabernacle of the LORD and took hold of the horns of the altar.  
It was reported to King Solomon that Joab had fled to the tabernacle of the LORD and was by the altar. Then Solomon sent Benaiah son of Jehoiada, saying, "Go, strike him down."  
Benaiah came to the tabernacle of the LORD and said to him, "Thus says the king, 'Come out.'" He answered, "No, I will die here." Benaiah brought the king word again, saying, "Thus said Joab, and thus he answered me."  
The king said to him, "Do as he has said, strike him down and bury him, so you may take away the innocent blood which Joab shed from me and from my father's house.  
The LORD shall return his blood upon his own head, for he fell upon two men more righteous and better than he, and killed them with the sword, my father David not knowing it, namely, Abner son of Ner, captain of the host of Israel, and Amasa son of Jether, captain of the host of Judah.  
Their blood shall therefore return upon the head of Joab and upon the head of his descendants forever; but upon David, and upon his descendants, and upon his house, and upon his throne, there shall be peace forever from the LORD."  
So Benaiah son of Jehoiada went up, struck him down, and killed him; and he was buried in his own house in the wilderness.  
The king put Benaiah son of Jehoiada in his place over the army, and Zadok the priest he put in the place of Abiathar.  
The king sent for Shimei and said to him, "Build yourself a house in Jerusalem and dwell there, and do not go out from there to any place.  
For it shall be that on the day you go out and cross the brook Kidron, you shall know for certain that you shall surely die; your blood shall be upon your own head."  
Shimei said to the king, "The saying is good; as my lord the king has said, so will your servant do." So Shimei dwelt in Jerusalem many days.  
But it happened at the end of three years that two of Shimei's servants ran away to Achish son of Maachah, king of Gath. They told Shimei, "Behold, your servants are in Gath."  
Shimei arose, saddled his donkey, and went to Gath to Achish to seek his servants; Shimei went and brought his servants from Gath.  
It was reported to Solomon that Shimei had gone from Jerusalem to Gath and had returned.  
The king sent for Shimei and said to him, "Did I not make you swear by the LORD and warned you, saying, 'Know for certain that on the day you go out and walk abroad anywhere, you shall surely die'? And you said to me, 'The word I have heard is good.'  
Why then have you not kept the oath of the LORD and the commandment that I charged you with?  
The king said moreover to Shimei, "You know all the wickedness that your heart is privy to, that you did to David my father; therefore the LORD shall return your wickedness upon your own head.  
And King Solomon shall be blessed, and the throne of David shall be established before the LORD forever."  
So the king commanded Benaiah son of Jehoiada, who went out and struck him down so that he died. Thus, the kingdom was established in the hand of Solomon.