Now Pashur, the son of Immer the priest and chief governor in the house of the LORD, heard that Jeremiah was prophesying these things.
Then Pashur struck Jeremiah the prophet and placed him in the stocks at the high gate of Benjamin, near the house of the LORD.
And it came to pass the next day that Pashur released Jeremiah from the stocks. Jeremiah then said to him, "The LORD has not called you Pashur, but Magormissabib."
For thus says the LORD: "Behold, I will make you a terror to yourself and to all your friends; they shall fall by the sword of their enemies, and you will see it with your own eyes. I will hand all of Judah over to the king of Babylon, who will carry them away captive to Babylon and slay them with the sword."
Moreover, I will deliver all the strength of this city, along with all its labor and precious things, and all the treasures of the kings of Judah into the hands of their enemies, who will plunder them, take them, and carry them to Babylon.
And you, Pashur, and all who dwell in your house shall go into captivity; you shall come to Babylon, and there you shall die, and be buried there, you and all your friends to whom you have prophesied lies.
O LORD, you have deceived me, and I was deceived; you are stronger than I, and you have prevailed. I am in derision daily; everyone mocks me.
For since I spoke, I cried out, "Violence and spoil!" because the word of the LORD has become a reproach to me and a derision every day.
Then I said, "I will not make mention of Him, nor speak any more in His name." But His word was in my heart like a burning fire shut up in my bones; I was weary of holding it back, and I could not.
For I heard the defamation of many, fear on every side. They say, "Report, and we will report it." All my acquaintances watched for my stumbling, saying, "Perhaps he will be enticed, and we shall prevail against him, and we shall take our revenge on him."
But the LORD is with me like a mighty warrior; therefore my persecutors will stumble, and they will not prevail. They will be greatly ashamed, for they will not prosper; their everlasting confusion will never be forgotten.
But, O LORD of hosts, who tests the righteous and sees the heart and the mind, let me see your vengeance upon them, for I have opened my cause to you.
Sing to the LORD; praise the LORD, for He has delivered the soul of the poor from the hand of evildoers.
Cursed be the day on which I was born; let not the day of my mother’s childbirth be blessed.
Cursed be the man who brought the news to my father, saying, "A male child has been born to you," making him very glad.
And let that man be like the cities which the LORD overthrew and did not repent; let him hear the cry in the morning and the shouting at noon.
Because he did not kill me in the womb; or that my mother might have been my grave, and her womb always pregnant with me.
Why then did I come forth from the womb to see labor and sorrow, that my days should be consumed with shame?
