Josiah was eight years old when he began to reign, and he reigned for thirty-one years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Jedidah, the daughter of Adaiah from Boscath.
He did what was right in the sight of the LORD, following all the ways of David his father, and did not turn aside to the right or to the left.
In the eighteenth year of King Josiah's reign, he sent Shaphan, the son of Azaliah, the son of Meshullam, the scribe, to the house of the LORD, saying,
"Go up to Hilkiah the high priest, so he can count the silver that has been brought into the house of the LORD, which the doorkeepers have gathered from the people.
And let them deliver it into the hands of those who are doing the work, overseeing the house of the LORD, and let them give it to the workers in the house of the LORD to repair the breaches of the house.
To carpenters, builders, and masons, and to buy timber and hewn stone to repair the house.
However, there was no accounting made with them for the money that was delivered into their hands, because they dealt faithfully.
Hilkiah the high priest said to Shaphan the scribe, "I have found the book of the law in the house of the LORD." Hilkiah gave the book to Shaphan, and he read it.
Shaphan the scribe came to the king and reported to him, saying, "Your servants have gathered the money found in the house and delivered it into the hands of those who do the work, overseeing the house of the LORD."
Shaphan the scribe also showed the king, saying, "Hilkiah the priest has delivered me a book." Shaphan read it before the king.
When the king heard the words of the book of the law, he tore his clothes.
The king commanded Hilkiah the priest, Ahikam the son of Shaphan, Achbor the son of Michaiah, Shaphan the scribe, and Asahiah, a servant of the king, saying,
"Go, inquire of the LORD for me, for the people, and for all Judah, concerning the words of this book that has been found; for great is the wrath of the LORD that is kindled against us, because our fathers have not listened to the words of this book, to do according to all that is written concerning us."
So Hilkiah the priest, Ahikam, Achbor, Shaphan, and Asahiah went to Huldah the prophetess, the wife of Shallum the son of Tikvah, the son of Harhas, keeper of the wardrobe; (she dwelt in Jerusalem in the college;) and they spoke with her.
She said to them, "Thus says the LORD God of Israel: Tell the man who sent you to me,
'Thus says the LORD: Behold, I will bring disaster upon this place and upon its inhabitants, all the words of the book which the king of Judah has read.
Because they have forsaken me and burned incense to other gods, provoking me to anger with all the works of their hands; therefore my wrath shall be kindled against this place and shall not be quenched.'
But to the king of Judah who sent you to inquire of the LORD, thus shall you say to him: 'Thus says the LORD God of Israel, regarding the words you have heard:
Because your heart was tender and you humbled yourself before the LORD when you heard what I spoke against this place and its inhabitants, that they should become a desolation and a curse, and you tore your clothes and wept before me; I also have heard you, says the LORD.
Therefore, behold, I will gather you to your fathers, and you shall be gathered to your grave in peace; and your eyes shall not see all the disaster that I will bring upon this place.'" And they brought the king word again.
