And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
"Command the children of Israel, and tell them, 'When you enter the land of Canaan; (this is the land that shall be allotted to you as an inheritance, even the land of Canaan with its borders:)
Your southern boundary shall extend from the wilderness of Zin along the coast of Edom, and your southern border shall be the outermost edge of the Salt Sea eastward:
Your border shall turn from the south to the ascent of Akrabbim, and continue to Zin; the boundary shall extend from the south to Kadeshbarnea, and proceed to Hazaraddar, and pass on to Azmon:
The border shall encompass from Azmon to the river of Egypt, and its exits shall be at the sea.
As for the western border, you shall have the Great Sea as your boundary: this shall be your western border.
This shall be your northern border: from the Great Sea, you shall designate Mount Hor:
From Mount Hor, you shall mark your border to the entrance of Hamath; and the exits of the border shall be to Zedad:
The border shall extend to Ziphron, and its exits shall be at Hazarenan: this shall be your northern border.
You shall designate your eastern border from Hazarenan to Shepham:
The boundary shall descend from Shepham to Riblah, on the east side of Ain; and the border shall descend, reaching the side of the Sea of Chinnereth eastward:
The border shall go down to the Jordan, and its exits shall be at the Salt Sea: this shall be your land with its borders all around.
And Moses commanded the children of Israel, saying, 'This is the land which you shall inherit by lot, which the LORD commanded to give to the nine tribes and the half-tribe:
For the tribe of the children of Reuben, according to the house of their fathers, and the tribe of the children of Gad, according to the house of their fathers, have received their inheritance; and half the tribe of Manasseh has received their inheritance:
The two tribes and the half-tribe have received their inheritance on this side of the Jordan, near Jericho eastward, toward the sunrise.'
And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
'These are the names of the men who shall divide the land for you: Eleazar the priest, and Joshua the son of Nun.
You shall take one leader from each tribe to divide the land by inheritance.
The names of the men are as follows: From the tribe of Judah, Caleb the son of Jephunneh.
From the tribe of the children of Simeon, Shemuel the son of Ammihud.
From the tribe of Benjamin, Elidad the son of Chislon.
From the tribe of the children of Dan, Bukki the son of Jogli.
From the children of Joseph, for the tribe of Manasseh, Hanniel the son of Ephod.
From the tribe of the children of Ephraim, Kemuel the son of Shiphtan.
From the tribe of the children of Zebulun, Elizaphan the son of Parnach.
From the tribe of the children of Issachar, Paltiel the son of Azzan.
From the tribe of the children of Asher, Ahihud the son of Shelomi.
From the tribe of the children of Naphtali, Pedahel the son of Ammihud.
These are the men whom the LORD commanded to divide the inheritance to the children of Israel in the land of Canaan.'
