For we know that if our earthly dwelling, this tent, were to be dismantled, we have a building from God, a house not made by human hands, eternal in the heavens.  
In this, we groan, earnestly longing to be clothed with our heavenly dwelling.  
If indeed, when clothed, we will not be found naked.  
For we who are in this tent groan, being burdened; not because we desire to be unclothed, but to be further clothed, so that mortality may be swallowed up by life.  
Now, the one who has prepared us for this very purpose is God, who has also given us the Spirit as a guarantee.  
Therefore, we are always confident, knowing that while we are at home in the body, we are away from the Lord.  
(For we walk by faith, not by sight.)  
We are confident, I say, and would prefer to be away from the body and at home with the Lord.  
So we strive to please Him, whether we are at home or away.  
For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, so that each one may receive what is due for the things done while in the body, whether good or bad.  
Knowing, therefore, the fear of the Lord, we persuade others; but we are made manifest to God, and I hope we are also made manifest in your consciences.  
For we do not commend ourselves to you again, but we give you an opportunity to boast on our behalf, so that you may have something to say to those who boast in appearance and not in heart.  
For whether we are out of our minds, it is for God; or whether we are in our right mind, it is for your benefit.  
For the love of Christ compels us, because we are convinced that one died for all, therefore all died.  
And He died for all, that those who live should no longer live for themselves, but for Him who died for them and was raised again.  
So from now on, we regard no one from a worldly point of view; though we once regarded Christ in this way, we do so no longer.  
Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation: the old has passed away; behold, the new has come!  
All this is from God, who reconciled us to Himself through Christ and gave us the ministry of reconciliation.  
That is, in Christ, God was reconciling the world to Himself, not counting their trespasses against them; and He has entrusted to us the message of reconciliation.  
We are therefore Christ's ambassadors, as though God were making His appeal through us; we implore you on Christ's behalf: be reconciled to God.  
God made Him who had no sin to be sin for us, so that in Him we might become the righteousness of God.