Here are the edited lines:

As snow falls in summer and rain during harvest, so honor is inappropriate for a fool.  
As a bird wanders and a swallow flies, so a curse without cause will not come to pass.  
A whip is for the horse, a bridle for the donkey, and a rod for the back of a fool.  
Do not answer a fool according to his folly, or you will be just like him.  
Answer a fool according to his folly, or he will become wise in his own eyes.  
He who sends a message by the hand of a fool cuts off his own feet and brings harm upon himself.  
The legs of the lame are not equal; likewise, a parable is out of place in the mouth of fools.  
As one who binds a stone in a sling, so is he who gives honor to a fool.  
As a thorn goes into the hand of a drunkard, so is a parable in the mouths of fools.  
The great God who created all things rewards both the fool and the transgressors.  
As a dog returns to its vomit, so a fool returns to his folly.  
Do you see a man wise in his own eyes? There is more hope for a fool than for him.  
The slothful man says, "There is a lion in the way; a lion is in the streets."  
As a door turns on its hinges, so does the slothful man turn in his bed.  
The slothful man hides his hand in his bosom; it troubles him to bring it back to his mouth.  
The sluggard is wiser in his own eyes than seven men who can give a reason.  
He who passes by and meddles in a quarrel that does not belong to him is like one who grabs a dog by the ears.  
As a madman who throws firebrands, arrows, and death,  
So is the man who deceives his neighbor and says, "Am I not just joking?"  
Where there is no wood, the fire goes out; so where there is no gossip, strife ceases.  
As coals are to burning coals, and wood to fire, so is a contentious man to kindle strife.  
The words of a gossip are like wounds; they penetrate to the innermost parts of the belly.  
Burning lips and a wicked heart are like a potsherd covered with silver dross.  
He who hates disguises his hatred with his lips and stores up deceit within himself;  
When he speaks kindly, do not believe him, for there are seven abominations in his heart.  
Whose hatred is concealed by deceit, his wickedness will be revealed before the whole congregation.  
Whoever digs a pit will fall into it; and he who rolls a stone, it will roll back on him.  
A lying tongue hates those it hurts, and a flattering mouth brings ruin.