Moreover, my brothers, I do not want you to be unaware that all our ancestors were under the cloud and all passed through the sea;  
And they were all baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea;  
And they all ate the same spiritual food;  
And they all drank the same spiritual drink, for they drank from the spiritual Rock that accompanied them, and that Rock was Christ.  
However, God was not pleased with many of them, for they were overthrown in the wilderness.  
Now these things occurred as examples for us, so that we would not crave evil things as they did.  
Do not be idolaters, as some of them were; as it is written, "The people sat down to eat and drink, and rose up to play."  
Let us not engage in sexual immorality, as some of them did, and in one day twenty-three thousand fell.  
Let us not test Christ, as some of them also tested Him and were destroyed by serpents.  
Do not complain, as some of them also complained and were destroyed by the destroyer.  
Now all these things happened to them as examples, and they were written for our instruction, upon whom the ends of the ages have come.  
Therefore, let anyone who thinks he stands take heed lest he fall.  
No temptation has overtaken you except what is common to mankind; and God is faithful; He will not allow you to be tempted beyond what you can bear, but will provide a way out so that you can endure it.  
Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry.  
I speak to you as wise individuals; judge for yourselves what I say.  
Is not the cup of blessing that we bless a participation in the blood of Christ? Is not the bread that we break a participation in the body of Christ?  
For we, though many, are one bread and one body, for we all partake of that one bread.  
Consider Israel according to the flesh: are not those who eat the sacrifices partakers of the altar?  
What do I mean then? That an idol is anything, or that which is offered in sacrifice to idols is anything?  
But I say that the things which the Gentiles sacrifice, they sacrifice to demons and not to God; and I do not want you to have fellowship with demons.  
You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of demons; you cannot partake of the Lord's table and the table of demons.  
Are we provoking the Lord to jealousy? Are we stronger than He?  
All things are lawful for me, but not all things are beneficial; all things are lawful for me, but not all things build up.  
Let no one seek his own good, but the good of his neighbor.  
Whatever is sold in the meat market, eat, asking no questions for conscience' sake;  
For the earth is the Lord's, and all its fullness.  
If any of the unbelievers invites you to dinner and you are disposed to go, eat whatever is set before you, asking no questions for conscience' sake.  
But if anyone says to you, "This was offered to idols," do not eat it for the sake of the one who showed it, and for conscience' sake; for the earth is the Lord's, and all its fullness.  
Conscience, I say, not your own, but of the other; for why should my liberty be judged by another man's conscience?  
For if I partake with thanks, why am I evil spoken of for the food over which I give thanks?  
Therefore, whether you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God.  
Give no offense to Jews, nor to Greeks, nor to the church of God;  
Just as I try to please everyone in all things, not seeking my own profit, but the profit of many, that they may be saved.