For I wish for you to understand the great struggle I have on your behalf, as well as for those in Laodicea, and for all who have not seen me in person;
That their hearts may be comforted, united in love, and filled with the wealth of complete understanding, acknowledging the mystery of God, the Father, and Christ;
In whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge.
And I say this to prevent anyone from deceiving you with persuasive words.
For although I am absent in body, I am present with you in spirit, rejoicing and observing your order and the steadfastness of your faith in Christ.
As you have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so continue to walk in Him:
Rooted and built up in Him, and established in the faith, as you have been taught, overflowing with gratitude.
Beware that no one takes you captive through philosophy and empty deceit, based on human tradition, and the basic principles of the world, rather than on Christ.
For in Him dwells all the fullness of the Godhead in bodily form.
And you are complete in Him, who is the head of all rule and authority:
In Him, you were also circumcised with a circumcision not made by hands, by putting off the body of the sins of the flesh through the circumcision of Christ:
Buried with Him in baptism, in which you were also raised with Him through faith in the working of God, who raised Him from the dead.
And you, who were dead in your sins and the uncircumcision of your flesh, He has made alive together with Him, having forgiven you all your trespasses;
Erasing the record of debt that stood against us, which was hostile to us; He took it away, nailing it to the cross;
And having disarmed the powers and authorities, He made a public spectacle of them, triumphing over them by the cross.
Therefore, let no one judge you in regard to food or drink, or in respect to a festival, a new moon, or sabbath days:
These are a shadow of things to come, but the substance belongs to Christ.
Let no one disqualify you, insisting on asceticism and worship of angels, going on in detail about visions, puffed up without reason by his sensuous mind,
And not holding fast to the Head, from whom the whole body, nourished and knit together through its joints and ligaments, grows with a growth that is from God.
If you have died with Christ to the elemental spirits of the world, why, as if you were still alive in the world, do you submit to regulations,
“Do not touch, do not taste, do not handle,”
Which all perish as they are used—according to human precepts and teachings?
These have indeed an appearance of wisdom in promoting self-made religion and asceticism and severity to the body, but they are of no value in stopping the indulgence of the flesh.
