And David fled from Naioth in Ramah, and came to Jonathan, saying, "What have I done? What is my iniquity? What is my sin before your father that he seeks my life?"  
Jonathan replied, "God forbid; you shall not die. My father will do nothing, great or small, without telling me. Why would he hide this from me? It is not so."  
David swore again, saying, "Your father knows that I have found favor in your eyes, and he says, 'Do not let Jonathan know, or he will be grieved.' But truly, as the LORD lives and as your soul lives, there is but a step between me and death."  
Jonathan said to David, "Whatever your soul desires, I will do it for you."  
David said to Jonathan, "Behold, tomorrow is the new moon, and I should not fail to sit with the king at the meal. Let me go and hide in the field until the evening of the third day."  
"If your father misses me at all, say, 'David earnestly asked leave of me to run to Bethlehem, his city, for there is a yearly sacrifice for the family there.'"  
"If he says, 'It is well,' then your servant will have peace; but if he is very angry, then be sure that evil is determined by him."  
"Therefore, deal kindly with your servant, for you have brought me into a covenant of the LORD with you. If there is iniquity in me, kill me yourself; why should you bring me to your father?"  
Jonathan replied, "Far be it from you! If I knew for certain that evil was determined by my father against you, would I not tell you?"  
David asked Jonathan, "Who will tell me? What if your father answers you harshly?"  
Jonathan said to David, "Come, let us go out into the field." So they both went out into the field.  
Jonathan said to David, "O LORD God of Israel, when I have sounded my father tomorrow or the third day, and if there is good toward David, and I do not send to you and let you know,  
may the LORD do so and much more to Jonathan. But if it pleases my father to do you evil, I will let you know and send you away, that you may go in peace. May the LORD be with you, as He has been with my father."  
"And you shall not only show me the kindness of the LORD while I live, that I may not die,  
but also you shall not cut off your kindness from my house forever, not even when the LORD has cut off every one of David's enemies from the face of the earth."  
So Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David, saying, "Let the LORD require it at the hand of David's enemies."  
Jonathan caused David to swear again, for he loved him as he loved his own soul.  
Then Jonathan said to David, "Tomorrow is the new moon, and you will be missed because your seat will be empty."  
"When you have stayed three days, go down quickly and come to the place where you hid yourself when the business was in hand, and remain by the stone Ezel."  
"I will shoot three arrows on the side of it, as though I shot at a mark."  
"Behold, I will send a lad, saying, 'Go, find out the arrows.' If I say to the lad, 'Behold, the arrows are on this side of you, take them,' then come, for there is peace for you and no hurt; as the LORD lives."  
"But if I say to the young man, 'Behold, the arrows are beyond you; go your way,' then the LORD has sent you away."  
"And as for the matter we have spoken of, behold, the LORD be between you and me forever."  
So David hid in the field, and when the new moon came, the king sat down to eat.  
The king sat on his seat, as at other times, by the wall, and Jonathan arose, and Abner sat by Saul's side, but David's place was empty.  
Nevertheless, Saul did not say anything that day, for he thought, "Something has happened to him; he is not clean; surely he is not clean."  
It came to pass on the next day, the second day of the month, that David's place was empty, and Saul said to Jonathan his son, "Why has the son of Jesse not come to the meal, either yesterday or today?"  
Jonathan answered Saul, "David earnestly asked leave of me to go to Bethlehem."  
He said, "Let me go, I pray you, for our family has a sacrifice in the city, and my brother has commanded me to be there. Now, if I have found favor in your eyes, let me go and see my brothers. Therefore, he has not come to the king's table."  
Then Saul's anger was kindled against Jonathan, and he said to him, "You son of a perverse, rebellious woman! Do I not know that you have chosen the son of Jesse to your own shame and to the shame of your mother's nakedness?  
For as long as the son of Jesse lives on the ground, you shall not be established, nor your kingdom. Now send and bring him to me, for he shall surely die."  
Jonathan answered Saul, "Why should he be killed? What has he done?"  
Saul cast a javelin at him to strike him, and Jonathan knew that it was determined by his father to kill David.  
So Jonathan arose from the table in fierce anger and did not eat any food the second day of the month, for he was grieved for David because his father had done him shame.  
In the morning, Jonathan went out into the field at the appointed time with David, and a little lad was with him.  
He said to his lad, "Run, find out now the arrows which I shoot." As the lad ran, he shot an arrow beyond him.  
When the lad came to the place where the arrow Jonathan had shot fell, Jonathan cried out to the lad, "Is not the arrow beyond you?"  
Jonathan called out to the lad, "Make haste, do not delay." The lad gathered up the arrows and came to his master.  
But the lad knew nothing; only Jonathan and David knew the matter.  
Jonathan gave his equipment to his lad and said to him, "Go, carry them to the city."  
As soon as the lad was gone, David arose from his hiding place, fell on his face to the ground, and bowed three times. They kissed one another and wept together until David exceeded.  
Jonathan said to David, "Go in peace, for we have sworn both of us in the name of the LORD, saying, 'The LORD be between me and you, and between my descendants and your descendants forever.'" And he arose and departed, and Jonathan went into the city.