After this, there was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.  
Now, in Jerusalem, by the sheep market, there is a pool called Bethesda in the Hebrew language, which has five porches.  
In these lay a great multitude of impotent people—blind, lame, and paralyzed—waiting for the moving of the water.  
For an angel would come down at a certain season into the pool and stir the water; whoever stepped in first after the stirring of the water was made whole of whatever disease they had.  
And a certain man was there who had an infirmity for thirty-eight years.  
When Jesus saw him lying there and knew that he had been in that condition for a long time, he said to him, "Do you want to be made whole?"  
The impotent man answered him, "Sir, I have no one to put me into the pool when the water is stirred; while I am coming, another steps down before me."  
Jesus said to him, "Rise, take up your bed, and walk."  
And immediately, the man was made whole, took up his bed, and walked; and that day was the Sabbath.  
The Jews therefore said to him who was cured, "It is the Sabbath; it is not lawful for you to carry your bed."  
He answered them, "He who made me whole said to me, 'Take up your bed and walk.'"  
Then they asked him, "What man is that who said to you, 'Take up your bed and walk'?"  
But he who was healed did not know who it was, for Jesus had withdrawn, a multitude being in that place.  
Afterward, Jesus found him in the temple and said to him, "Behold, you are made whole; sin no more, lest a worse thing come upon you."  
The man departed and told the Jews that it was Jesus who had made him whole.  
And therefore, the Jews persecuted Jesus and sought to kill him because he had done these things on the Sabbath.  
But Jesus answered them, "My Father is working until now, and I am working."  
Therefore, the Jews sought even more to kill him, because not only had he broken the Sabbath, but he also said that God was his Father, making himself equal with God.  
Then Jesus answered and said to them, "Most assuredly, I say to you, the Son can do nothing of himself, but what he sees the Father do; for whatever he does, the Son also does in like manner."  
For the Father loves the Son and shows him all things that he himself does; and he will show him greater works than these, that you may marvel.  
For as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, even so, the Son gives life to whom he will.  
For the Father judges no one, but has committed all judgment to the Son,  
That all should honor the Son just as they honor the Father. He who does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him.  
Most assuredly, I say to you, he who hears my word and believes in him who sent me has everlasting life and shall not come into condemnation, but has passed from death to life.  
Most assuredly, I say to you, the hour is coming, and now is, when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live.  
For as the Father has life in himself, so he has granted the Son to have life in himself,  
And has given him authority to execute judgment also, because he is the Son of Man.  
Do not marvel at this; for the hour is coming in which all who are in the graves will hear his voice,  
And will come forth—those who have done good, to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil, to the resurrection of condemnation.  
I can of myself do nothing; as I hear, I judge; and my judgment is just because I do not seek my own will, but the will of the Father who sent me.  
If I bear witness of myself, my witness is not true.  
There is another who bears witness of me, and I know that the witness which he witnesses of me is true.  
You sent to John, and he bore witness to the truth.  
But I do not receive testimony from man; but I say these things that you may be saved.  
He was a burning and shining lamp, and you were willing for a time to rejoice in his light.  
But I have a greater witness than that of John; for the works which the Father has given me to finish, the very works that I do, bear witness of me that the Father has sent me.  
And the Father himself, who sent me, has testified of me. You have neither heard his voice at any time nor seen his form.  
But you do not have his word abiding in you, because whom he sent, him you do not believe.  
Search the Scriptures, for in them you think you have eternal life; and these are they which testify of me.  
But you are not willing to come to me that you may have life.  
I do not receive honor from men.  
But I know you, that you do not have the love of God in you.  
I have come in my Father's name, and you do not receive me; if another comes in his own name, him you will receive.  
How can you believe, who receive honor from one another and do not seek the honor that comes from the only God?  
Do not think that I will accuse you to the Father; there is one who accuses you—Moses, in whom you trust.  
For if you believed Moses, you would believe me; for he wrote about me.  
But if you do not believe his writings, how will you believe my words?