Lo, my eyes have witnessed all this, and my ears have heard and comprehended it.  
What you know, I also know: I am not inferior to you.  
Surely, I would speak to the Almighty, and I wish to reason with God.  
But you are forgers of lies; you are all worthless physicians.  
Oh, that you would all hold your peace! It would be your wisdom.  
Listen now to my reasoning, and pay attention to the pleadings of my lips.  
Will you speak wickedly for God and deceitfully for Him?  
Will you show favoritism? Will you contend for God?  
Is it good for Him to search you out? Or do you mock Him as one man mocks another?  
He will surely reprove you if you secretly show favoritism.  
Should not His majesty make you afraid? Should not His dread fall upon you?  
Your memories are like ashes, and your bodies like clay.  
Hold your peace, let me be, that I may speak, and let whatever will come upon me.  
Why do I take my flesh in my teeth and put my life in my hand?  
Though He slay me, yet I will trust in Him; I will maintain my own ways before Him.  
He will also be my salvation, for a hypocrite shall not come before Him.  
Listen carefully to my speech and my declaration with your ears.  
Behold, I have ordered my case; I know that I shall be justified.  
Who is he that will plead with me? For now, if I hold my tongue, I shall give up the ghost.  
Only do not do two things to me: then I will not hide myself from you.  
Withdraw your hand far from me, and let not your dread make me afraid.  
Then call, and I will answer; or let me speak, and you answer me.  
How many are my iniquities and sins? Make me know my transgression and my sin.  
Why do you hide your face and consider me your enemy?  
Will you break a leaf driven to and fro? Will you pursue dry stubble?  
For you write bitter things against me and make me bear the iniquities of my youth.  
You put my feet in the stocks and closely observe all my paths; you set a mark upon the heels of my feet.  
And he, like a rotten thing, consumes away, like a garment that is moth-eaten.  