Behold, you are beautiful, my love; behold, you are beautiful; you have doves' eyes within your hair: your hair is like a flock of goats that appear from Mount Gilead.  
Your teeth are like a flock of sheep that have been freshly shorn, which have come up from the washing; each one bears twins, and none is barren among them.  
Your lips are like a thread of scarlet, and your speech is lovely: your temples are like a piece of pomegranate within your hair.  
Your neck is like the tower of David built for an armory, upon which hang a thousand bucklers, all shields of mighty men.  
Your two breasts are like two young deer that are twins, which feed among the lilies.  
Until the day breaks and the shadows flee away, I will go to the mountain of myrrh and to the hill of frankincense.  
You are all beautiful, my love; there is no flaw in you.  
Come with me from Lebanon, my bride; come with me from Lebanon: look from the top of Amana, from the top of Shenir and Hermon, from the dens of lions, from the mountains of leopards.  
You have captivated my heart, my sister, my bride; you have captivated my heart with one of your eyes, with one chain of your neck.  
How beautiful is your love, my sister, my bride! How much better is your love than wine! And the fragrance of your ointments is better than all spices!  
Your lips, O my bride, drip like the honeycomb: honey and milk are under your tongue; and the fragrance of your garments is like the fragrance of Lebanon.  
A garden enclosed is my sister, my bride; a spring shut up, a fountain sealed.  
Your plants are an orchard of pomegranates, with delightful fruits; henna with spikenard,  
Spikenard and saffron; calamus and cinnamon, with all trees of frankincense; myrrh and aloes, with all the finest spices:  
A fountain of gardens, a well of living waters, and streams flowing from Lebanon.  
Awake, O north wind; and come, O south wind; blow upon my garden, that its spices may flow out. Let my beloved come into his garden and eat its pleasant fruits.  