Now Joshua was old and advanced in years; and the LORD said to him, "You are old and advanced in years, and there remains yet a great deal of land to be possessed."  
This is the land that still remains: all the borders of the Philistines, and all of Geshuri,  
From Sihor, which is in front of Egypt, even to the borders of Ekron northward, which is counted as belonging to the Canaanites: five lords of the Philistines; the Gazathites, the Ashdothites, the Eshkalonites, the Gittites, and the Ekronites; also the Avites:  
From the south, all the land of the Canaanites, and Mearah that is beside the Sidonians, to Aphek, to the borders of the Amorites:  
And the land of the Giblites, and all of Lebanon, toward the east, from Baalgad under Mount Hermon to the entrance of Hamath.  
All the inhabitants of the hill country from Lebanon to Misrephothmaim, and all the Sidonians, I will drive out from before the children of Israel; only divide it by lot to the Israelites for an inheritance, as I have commanded you.  
Now therefore divide this land for an inheritance to the nine tribes and the half-tribe of Manasseh,  
With whom the Reubenites and the Gadites have received their inheritance, which Moses gave them, beyond the Jordan eastward, just as Moses the servant of the LORD gave them;  
From Aroer, which is on the bank of the river Arnon, and the city that is in the midst of the river, and all the plain of Medeba to Dibon;  
And all the cities of Sihon king of the Amorites, who reigned in Heshbon, to the border of the children of Ammon;  
And Gilead, and the border of the Geshurites and Maachathites, and all of Mount Hermon, and all of Bashan to Salcah;  
All the kingdom of Og in Bashan, who reigned in Ashtaroth and in Edrei, who remained of the remnant of the giants; for these Moses struck down and expelled.  
Nevertheless, the children of Israel did not expel the Geshurites or the Maachathites; but the Geshurites and the Maachathites dwell among the Israelites to this day.  
Only to the tribes of Levi he gave no inheritance; the sacrifices of the LORD God of Israel made by fire are their inheritance, as he said to them.  
And Moses gave to the tribe of the children of Reuben an inheritance according to their families.  
And their territory was from Aroer, which is on the bank of the river Arnon, and the city that is in the midst of the river, and all the plain by Medeba;  
Heshbon, and all her cities that are in the plain; Dibon, and Bamothbaal, and Bethbaalmeon,  
And Jahaza, and Kedemoth, and Mephaath,  
And Kirjathaim, and Sibmah, and Zarethshahar in the mountain valley,  
And Bethpeor, and Ashdothpisgah, and Bethjeshimoth,  
And all the cities of the plain, and all the kingdom of Sihon king of the Amorites, who reigned in Heshbon, whom Moses struck down with the princes of Midian: Evi, Rekem, Zur, Hur, and Reba, who were dukes of Sihon, dwelling in the country.  
Balaam also the son of Beor, the soothsayer, the children of Israel killed with the sword among those who were slain by them.  
And the border of the children of Reuben was the Jordan, and its border. This was the inheritance of the children of Reuben according to their families, the cities and their villages.  
And Moses gave an inheritance to the tribe of Gad, to the children of Gad according to their families.  
And their territory was Jazer, and all the cities of Gilead, and half the land of the children of Ammon, to Aroer that is before Rabbah;  
And from Heshbon to Ramathmizpeh, and Betonim; and from Mahanaim to the border of Debir;  
And in the valley, Betharam, and Bethnimrah, and Succoth, and Zaphon, the rest of the kingdom of Sihon king of Heshbon, the Jordan and its border, even to the edge of the Sea of Chinnereth on the other side of the Jordan eastward.  
This is the inheritance of the children of Gad according to their families, the cities, and their villages.  
And Moses gave an inheritance to the half-tribe of Manasseh; this was the possession of the half-tribe of the children of Manasseh according to their families.  
And their territory was from Mahanaim, all of Bashan, all the kingdom of Og king of Bashan, and all the towns of Jair, which are in Bashan, sixty cities;  
And half of Gilead, and Ashtaroth, and Edrei, cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan, were given to the children of Machir the son of Manasseh, even to one half of the children of Machir according to their families.  
These are the regions which Moses distributed for inheritance in the plains of Moab, on the other side of the Jordan, near Jericho, eastward.  
But to the tribe of Levi, Moses gave no inheritance; the LORD God of Israel was their inheritance, as he said to them.