I commend to you Phebe, our sister, who is a servant of the church at Cenchrea.  
Receive her in the Lord, as is fitting for saints, and assist her in whatever business she may need from you; for she has been a helper to many, including myself.  
Greet Priscilla and Aquila, my fellow workers in Christ Jesus,  
who have risked their lives for me; to them not only I give thanks, but also all the churches of the Gentiles.  
Likewise, greet the church that meets in their home. Salute my dear Epaenetus, who is the firstfruits of Achaia for Christ.  
Greet Mary, who has worked very hard for us.  
Salute Andronicus and Junia, my relatives and fellow prisoners, who are well-known among the apostles and were in Christ before me.  
Greet Amplias, my beloved in the Lord.  
Salute Urbane, our fellow worker in Christ, and Stachys, my beloved.  
Salute Apelles, who is approved in Christ. Greet those who belong to the household of Aristobulus.  
Salute Herodion, my kinsman. Greet those who are of the household of Narcissus, who are in the Lord.  
Salute Tryphena and Tryphosa, who labor in the Lord. Greet the beloved Persis, who has worked very hard in the Lord.  
Salute Rufus, chosen in the Lord, and his mother, who is also mine.  
Salute Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermas, Patrobas, Hermes, and the brothers who are with them.  
Salute Philologus, Julia, Nereus, and his sister, and Olympas, and all the saints who are with them.  
Greet one another with a holy kiss. The churches of Christ greet you.  
Now I urge you, brothers, to watch out for those who cause divisions and offenses contrary to the doctrine you have learned; and avoid them.  
For such people do not serve our Lord Jesus Christ, but their own appetites; and by smooth talk and flattery, they deceive the hearts of the naive.  
For your obedience has become known to all. I rejoice over you, but I want you to be wise about what is good and innocent about what is evil.  
And the God of peace will soon crush Satan under your feet. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen.  
Timotheus, my fellow worker, and Lucius, Jason, and Sosipater, my relatives, greet you.  
I, Tertius, who wrote this letter, greet you in the Lord.  
Gaius, who is my host and the host of the whole church, greets you. Erastus, the city treasurer, greets you, and Quartus, a brother.  
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.  
Now to Him who is able to strengthen you according to my gospel and the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery that was kept secret since the world began,  
but now is made manifest, and by the scriptures of the prophets, according to the command of the eternal God, made known to all nations for the obedience of faith:  
To God, who alone is wise, be glory through Jesus Christ forever. Amen.