And it came to pass that after we had departed from them and set sail, we made a direct course to Coos, and the next day to Rhodes, and from there to Patara.  
Upon finding a ship bound for Phoenicia, we boarded and set sail.  
When we spotted Cyprus, we left it to our left and sailed into Syria, landing at Tyre, where the ship was to unload its cargo.  
Finding disciples there, we stayed for seven days, who, through the Spirit, urged Paul not to go up to Jerusalem.  
After completing those days, we departed, and they all accompanied us, including wives and children, until we were outside the city; we knelt on the shore and prayed.  
After saying our goodbyes, we boarded the ship, and they returned home.  
Having completed our journey from Tyre, we arrived at Ptolemais, greeted the brethren, and stayed with them for one day.  
The next day, we who were with Paul departed and arrived at Caesarea, where we entered the house of Philip the evangelist, one of the seven, and stayed with him.  
This man had four daughters who were virgins and prophesied.  
As we stayed there for many days, a certain prophet named Agabus came down from Judea.  
When he arrived, he took Paul's belt, bound his own hands and feet, and said, "Thus says the Holy Spirit: So shall the Jews at Jerusalem bind the man who owns this belt and deliver him into the hands of the Gentiles."  
When we heard these things, both we and those from that place urged him not to go up to Jerusalem.  
Then Paul answered, "What do you mean by weeping and breaking my heart? For I am ready not only to be bound but also to die at Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus."  
When he would not be persuaded, we ceased, saying, "The will of the Lord be done."  
After those days, we packed our belongings and went up to Jerusalem.  
Certain disciples from Caesarea accompanied us and brought along Mnason of Cyprus, an old disciple with whom we would stay.  
Upon our arrival in Jerusalem, the brethren received us gladly.  
The following day, Paul went in with us to see James, and all the elders were present.  
After greeting them, he reported in detail what God had accomplished among the Gentiles through his ministry.  
When they heard it, they glorified the Lord and said to him, "You see, brother, how many thousands of Jews believe, and they are all zealous for the law.  
They have been informed about you that you teach all the Jews among the Gentiles to forsake Moses, telling them not to circumcise their children or follow the customs."  
What then should we do? The multitude will certainly gather, for they will hear that you have come.  
Therefore, do what we tell you: We have four men who have taken a vow;  
Take them and purify yourself along with them, and pay their expenses so they may shave their heads. Then everyone will know that what they have been told about you is nothing, but that you yourself also walk orderly and keep the law.  
As for the Gentiles who believe, we have written and concluded that they should observe no such thing, except that they keep themselves from things offered to idols, from blood, from strangled animals, and from fornication.  
Then Paul took the men, and the next day, after purifying himself with them, entered the temple to signify the completion of the days of purification, until an offering could be made for each of them.  
When the seven days were almost over, the Jews from Asia saw him in the temple and stirred up the whole crowd, laying hands on him,  
Crying out, "Men of Israel, help! This is the man who teaches all men everywhere against the people, the law, and this place; and further, he has brought Greeks into the temple and has defiled this holy place."  
(For they had previously seen Trophimus the Ephesian with him in the city, whom they assumed Paul had brought into the temple.)  
The whole city was stirred up, and the people rushed together; they seized Paul and dragged him out of the temple, and immediately the doors were shut.  
As they were trying to kill him, news reached the chief captain of the band that all Jerusalem was in an uproar.  
He immediately took soldiers and centurions and ran down to them; when they saw the chief captain and the soldiers, they stopped beating Paul.  
Then the chief captain approached, took him, and ordered him to be bound with two chains; he asked who he was and what he had done.  
Some in the crowd shouted one thing and some another, and since he could not ascertain the truth because of the uproar, he ordered that Paul be taken into the barracks.  
When he reached the stairs, he was carried by the soldiers because of the violence of the crowd.  
The multitude followed, crying out, "Away with him!"  
As Paul was about to be led into the barracks, he said to the chief captain, "May I speak to you?" He replied, "Can you speak Greek?  
Aren't you that Egyptian who stirred up a rebellion and led four thousand assassins into the wilderness some time ago?"  
But Paul said, "I am a Jew from Tarsus in Cilicia, a citizen of no insignificant city. I implore you, allow me to speak to the people."  
When he had given him permission, Paul stood on the stairs and motioned with his hand to the people. When there was a great silence, he spoke to them in the Hebrew language, saying,