And I looked, and behold, a Lamb stood on Mount Sion, and with Him were one hundred forty-four thousand, having His Father's name written on their foreheads.
And I heard a voice from heaven, like the sound of many waters, and like the voice of great thunder; and I heard the sound of harpers playing their harps.
And they sang as if it were a new song before the throne, and before the four living creatures, and the elders; and no one could learn that song except the one hundred forty-four thousand who were redeemed from the earth.
These are they who were not defiled by women; for they are virgins. These are they who follow the Lamb wherever He goes. These were redeemed from among men, being the firstfruits to God and to the Lamb.
And in their mouth was found no deceit; for they are without fault before the throne of God.
And I saw another angel flying in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach to those who dwell on the earth, and to every nation, tribe, language, and people,
Saying with a loud voice, "Fear God, and give glory to Him; for the hour of His judgment has come: and worship Him who made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the springs of water."
And another angel followed, saying, "Babylon is fallen, is fallen, that great city, because she made all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication."
And the third angel followed them, saying with a loud voice, "If anyone worships the beast and his image, and receives his mark on his forehead or on his hand,
He shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out undiluted into the cup of His indignation; and he shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels, and in the presence of the Lamb.
And the smoke of their torment ascends forever and ever; and they have no rest day or night, who worship the beast and his image, and whoever receives the mark of his name."
Here is the patience of the saints; here are those who keep the commandments of God and the faith of Jesus.
And I heard a voice from heaven saying to me, "Write, Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on: Yes, says the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors; and their works follow them."
And I looked, and behold, a white cloud, and on the cloud sat one like the Son of Man, having on His head a golden crown, and in His hand a sharp sickle.
And another angel came out of the temple, crying with a loud voice to Him who sat on the cloud, "Thrust in Your sickle, and reap; for the time has come for You to reap, for the harvest of the earth is ripe."
And He who sat on the cloud thrust in His sickle on the earth; and the earth was reaped.
And another angel came out of the temple which is in heaven, also having a sharp sickle.
And another angel came out from the altar, who had power over fire; and cried with a loud voice to Him who had the sharp sickle, saying, "Thrust in Your sharp sickle, and gather the clusters of the vine of the earth; for her grapes are fully ripe."
And the angel thrust in his sickle into the earth, and gathered the vine of the earth, and cast it into the great winepress of the wrath of God.
And the winepress was trodden outside the city, and blood came out of the winepress, up to the horse's bridles, for a distance of one thousand six hundred furlongs.
