The Revelation of Jesus Christ, which God bestowed upon him, to reveal to his servants the events that must soon take place; and he communicated it through his angel to his servant John:
Who bore witness to the word of God, and to the testimony of Jesus Christ, and to all that he observed.
Blessed is the one who reads, and those who hear the words of this prophecy, and keep the things that are written in it: for the time is near.
John to the seven churches in Asia: Grace and peace to you from him who is, and who was, and who is to come; and from the seven Spirits who are before his throne;
And from Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness, the firstborn from the dead, and the ruler of the kings of the earth. To him who loved us and washed us from our sins in his own blood,
And has made us kings and priests to God and his Father; to him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen.
Behold, he comes with clouds; and every eye will see him, including those who pierced him: and all the tribes of the earth will mourn because of him. Even so, Amen.
I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, says the Lord, who is, and who was, and who is to come, the Almighty.
I, John, who am also your brother and companion in tribulation, and in the kingdom and patience of Jesus Christ, was on the island called Patmos, for the word of God and for the testimony of Jesus Christ.
I was in the Spirit on the Lord's Day, and I heard behind me a great voice, like a trumpet,
Saying, I am Alpha and Omega, the first and the last: and, What you see, write in a book, and send it to the seven churches in Asia; to Ephesus, and to Smyrna, and to Pergamos, and to Thyatira, and to Sardis, and to Philadelphia, and to Laodicea.
And I turned to see the voice that spoke with me. And when I turned, I saw seven golden lampstands;
And in the midst of the seven lampstands one like the Son of Man, clothed with a robe down to the feet, and girded about the chest with a golden sash.
His head and hair were white like wool, as white as snow; and his eyes were like a flame of fire;
And his feet were like fine brass, as if refined in a furnace; and his voice was like the sound of many waters.
And he had in his right hand seven stars: and out of his mouth went a sharp two-edged sword: and his countenance was like the sun shining in its strength.
And when I saw him, I fell at his feet as though dead. And he laid his right hand upon me, saying to me, Do not be afraid; I am the first and the last:
I am he who lives, and was dead; and behold, I am alive forevermore. Amen; and I have the keys of hell and of death.
Write the things which you have seen, and the things which are, and the things which will take place after this;
The mystery of the seven stars which you saw in my right hand, and the seven golden lampstands. The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches: and the seven lampstands which you saw are the seven churches.
