Do you know the time when the wild goats of the rock give birth? Or can you observe when the hinds calve?
Can you count the months they fulfill? Or do you know the time when they give birth?
They bow down, they give birth to their young, they cast out their sorrows.
Their young ones are thriving, they grow up with grain; they go out and do not return to them.
Who has set the wild ass free? Or who has loosened the bonds of the wild ass?
Whose home I have made the wilderness, and the barren land his dwelling.
He scorns the multitude of the city, nor does he heed the cries of the driver.
The range of the mountains is his pasture, and he searches for every green thing.
Will the unicorn be willing to serve you, or stay by your crib?
Can you bind the unicorn with a rope in the furrow? Or will he plow the valleys after you?
Will you trust him because his strength is great? Or will you leave your labor to him?
Will you believe that he will bring home your seed and gather it into your barn?
Did you give the beautiful wings to the peacocks? Or wings and feathers to the ostrich?
Which leaves her eggs in the earth and warms them in the dust,
And forgets that a foot may crush them, or that a wild beast may break them.
She is hardened against her young ones, as if they were not hers: her labor is in vain without fear;
Because God has deprived her of wisdom, nor has He imparted understanding to her.
When she lifts herself up on high, she scorns the horse and his rider.
Have you given the horse strength? Have you clothed his neck with thunder?
Can you make him afraid like a grasshopper? The glory of his nostrils is fearsome.
He paws in the valley and rejoices in his strength: he goes forth to meet the armed men.
He mocks at fear and is not frightened; neither does he turn back from the sword.
The quiver rattles against him, the glittering spear and the shield.
He swallows the ground with fierceness and rage: nor does he believe it is the sound of the trumpet.
He says among the trumpets, "Ha, ha;" and he smells the battle from afar, the thunder of captains, and the shouting.
Does the hawk fly by your wisdom and stretch her wings toward the south?
Does the eagle soar at your command and make her nest on high?
She dwells and abides on the rock, upon the crag of the rock, and the stronghold.
From there she seeks her prey, and her eyes observe from afar.
Her young ones also drink blood: and where the slain are, there is she.
