Therefore, you are inexcusable, O man, whoever you are that judges; for in judging another, you condemn yourself; for you who judge do the same things.
But we are sure that God's judgment is according to truth against those who commit such things.
And do you think this, O man, that judges those who do such things and do the same, that you will escape God's judgment?
Or do you despise the riches of His goodness, forbearance, and longsuffering, not knowing that the goodness of God leads you to repentance?
But after your hardness and impenitent heart, you are treasuring up wrath against the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God;
Who will render to every person according to their deeds:
To those who by patient continuance in well-doing seek for glory, honor, and immortality, eternal life;
But to those who are contentious and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, there will be indignation and wrath,
Tribulation and anguish upon every soul of man who does evil, of the Jew first, and also of the Gentile;
But glory, honor, and peace to every man who works good, to the Jew first, and also to the Gentile;
For there is no favoritism with God.
For as many as have sinned without the law will also perish without the law; and as many as have sinned in the law will be judged by the law;
(For not the hearers of the law are just before God, but the doers of the law will be justified.
For when the Gentiles, who do not have the law, do by nature the things contained in the law, these, having not the law, are a law unto themselves:
Which show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience also bearing witness, and their thoughts meanwhile accusing or excusing one another;)
In the day when God will judge the secrets of men by Jesus Christ according to my gospel.
Behold, you are called a Jew, and you rest in the law, and boast in God,
And know His will, and approve the things that are excellent, being instructed out of the law;
And you are confident that you yourself are a guide to the blind, a light to those who are in darkness,
An instructor of the foolish, a teacher of babes, having the form of knowledge and truth in the law.
Therefore, you who teach another, do you not teach yourself? You who preach that a man should not steal, do you steal?
You who say that a man should not commit adultery, do you commit adultery? You who abhor idols, do you commit sacrilege?
You who boast in the law, through breaking the law do you dishonor God?
For the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you, as it is written.
For circumcision truly profits if you keep the law; but if you are a breaker of the law, your circumcision is made uncircumcision.
Therefore, if the uncircumcised keep the righteousness of the law, will not his uncircumcision be counted as circumcision?
And will not uncircumcision, which is by nature, if it fulfills the law, judge you, who by the letter and circumcision transgress the law?
For he is not a Jew who is one outwardly; neither is that circumcision which is outward in the flesh:
But he is a Jew who is one inwardly; and circumcision is that of the heart, in the spirit, and not in the letter; whose praise is not from men, but from God.
