And the LORD visited Sarah as He had promised, and the LORD fulfilled His word to Sarah.
For Sarah conceived and bore Abraham a son in his old age, at the appointed time that God had mentioned to him.
And Abraham named his son, born to him by Sarah, Isaac.
And Abraham circumcised his son Isaac when he was eight days old, as God had commanded him.
And Abraham was one hundred years old when his son Isaac was born to him.
And Sarah said, "God has made me laugh, so that everyone who hears will laugh with me."
And she asked, "Who would have said to Abraham that Sarah would nurse children? For I have borne him a son in his old age."
And the child grew and was weaned; and Abraham held a great feast on the day Isaac was weaned.
And Sarah saw the son of Hagar the Egyptian, whom she had borne to Abraham, mocking.
Therefore, she said to Abraham, "Cast out this bondwoman and her son, for the son of this bondwoman shall not be heir with my son, even with Isaac."
And the matter was very distressing to Abraham because of his son.
And God said to Abraham, "Do not let it be distressing in your sight because of the lad and your bondwoman; in all that Sarah has said to you, listen to her voice, for in Isaac shall your seed be called.
And I will also make a nation of the son of the bondwoman, because he is your seed."
And Abraham rose early in the morning, took bread and a bottle of water, gave it to Hagar, placing it on her shoulder along with the child, and sent her away; and she departed and wandered in the wilderness of Beersheba.
And the water in the bottle was gone, and she placed the child under one of the shrubs.
And she went and sat down opposite him at a distance, about a bowshot away, for she said, "Let me not see the death of the child." And she sat opposite him, lifted her voice, and wept.
And God heard the voice of the lad; and the angel of God called to Hagar from heaven, saying, "What troubles you, Hagar? Do not be afraid, for God has heard the voice of the lad where he is.
Arise, lift up the lad and hold him in your hand, for I will make him a great nation."
And God opened her eyes, and she saw a well of water; and she went and filled the bottle with water and gave the lad a drink.
And God was with the lad; and he grew and lived in the wilderness, becoming an archer.
And he lived in the wilderness of Paran, and his mother took him a wife from the land of Egypt.
At that time, Abimelech and Phichol, the chief captain of his host, spoke to Abraham, saying, "God is with you in all that you do.
Now, therefore, swear to me here by God that you will not deal falsely with me, nor with my son, nor with my grandson; but according to the kindness that I have shown you, you shall show to me and to the land where you have sojourned."
And Abraham said, "I will swear."
And Abraham reproved Abimelech concerning a well of water that Abimelech's servants had violently taken away.
And Abimelech said, "I do not know who has done this thing; you did not tell me, nor did I hear of it until today."
And Abraham took sheep and oxen and gave them to Abimelech, and they both made a covenant.
And Abraham set seven ewe lambs apart by themselves.
And Abimelech asked Abraham, "What do these seven ewe lambs mean that you have set apart?"
And he said, "You shall take these seven ewe lambs from my hand as a witness that I have dug this well."
Therefore, he called that place Beersheba, because there they swore an oath.
Thus, they made a covenant at Beersheba; then Abimelech rose up, and Phichol, the chief captain of his host, and they returned to the land of the Philistines.
And Abraham planted a grove in Beersheba and called on the name of the LORD, the everlasting God.
And Abraham sojourned in the land of the Philistines for many days.
