In those days, Hezekiah was gravely ill. Isaiah the prophet, son of Amoz, visited him and said, "Thus says the LORD: Set your house in order, for you shall die and not live."  
Hezekiah then turned his face to the wall and prayed to the LORD,  
saying, "Remember now, O LORD, I beseech You, how I have walked before You in truth and with a perfect heart, and have done what is good in Your sight." And Hezekiah wept bitterly.  
Then the word of the LORD came to Isaiah, saying,  
"Go and tell Hezekiah, 'Thus says the LORD, the God of David your father: I have heard your prayer; I have seen your tears. Behold, I will add fifteen years to your life.  
I will deliver you and this city from the hand of the king of Assyria; I will defend this city.  
And this shall be a sign to you from the LORD, that the LORD will do this thing that He has spoken:  
Behold, I will bring back the shadow on the sundial of Ahaz, ten degrees backward.' So the sun returned ten degrees, by which it had gone down.  
This is the writing of Hezekiah, king of Judah, when he had been sick and had recovered from his illness:  
"I said, 'In the prime of my days, I shall go to the gates of the grave; I am deprived of the rest of my years.  
I said, 'I shall not see the LORD, even the LORD, in the land of the living; I shall look upon man no more among the inhabitants of the world.  
My age is departed, and is removed from me like a shepherd's tent; I have cut off my life like a weaver. He will cut me off with pining sickness; from day to night You will make an end of me.  
I counted until morning; like a lion, so will He break all my bones. From day to night You will make an end of me.  
Like a crane or a swallow, I chattered; I mourned like a dove. My eyes fail from looking upward. O LORD, I am oppressed; undertake for me.  
What shall I say? He has both spoken to me and Himself has done it. I shall walk softly all my years in the bitterness of my soul.  
O LORD, by these things men live, and in all these things is the life of my spirit. So will You recover me and make me live.  
Behold, for peace I had great bitterness; but You, in love for my soul, have delivered it from the pit of corruption, for You have cast all my sins behind Your back.  
For the grave cannot praise You; death cannot celebrate You. Those who go down to the pit cannot hope for Your truth.  
The living, the living, he shall praise You, as I do this day; the father shall make known Your truth to the children.  
The LORD was ready to save me; therefore, we will sing my songs with stringed instruments all the days of our life in the house of the LORD.  
For Isaiah had said, 'Let them take a lump of figs and lay it as a plaster upon the boil, and he shall recover.'  
Hezekiah also asked, 'What is the sign that I shall go up to the house of the LORD?'"