Why, if the Almighty knows all times, do those who do not know Him fail to see His days?  
Some remove the boundaries; they violently take away flocks and consume their resources.  
They drive away the donkey of the fatherless and take the widow's ox as collateral.  
They push the needy off the path; the poor of the earth gather in hiding.  
Behold, like wild donkeys in the desert, they go forth to work, rising early for prey; the wilderness provides food for them and their children.  
Each one harvests his grain in the field and gathers the vintage of the wicked.  
They leave the naked without clothing, providing no cover against the cold.  
They are drenched by the mountain showers and cling to the rock for lack of shelter.  
They snatch the fatherless from the breast and take a pledge from the poor.  
They leave him naked without clothing and take away the sheaf from the hungry;  
They produce oil within their walls and tread their winepresses, yet suffer from thirst.  
Men groan from the city, and the souls of the wounded cry out; yet God does not charge them with folly.  
They are among those who rebel against the light; they do not know its ways, nor do they walk in its paths.  
The murderer rises with the light, killing the poor and needy, and at night, he acts like a thief.  
The eye of the adulterer waits for twilight, saying, "No eye shall see me," and disguises his face.  
In the dark, they break into houses they marked for themselves during the day; they do not know the light.  
For the morning is to them like the shadow of death; if one knows them, they are in the terrors of that shadow.  
He is swift as the waters; their portion is cursed in the earth; he does not regard the way of the vineyards.  
Drought and heat consume the snow waters; so does the grave consume those who have sinned.  
The womb will forget him; the worm will feed sweetly on him; he will be no more remembered, and wickedness will be broken like a tree.  
He treats the barren woman harshly and does not do good to the widow.  
He also draws in the mighty with his power; he rises up, and no man is assured of life.  
Though he may be given safety, on which he relies, his eyes are still on their ways.  
They are exalted for a brief moment, but they vanish and are brought low; they are taken away like all others and cut off like the tops of the ears of corn.  
And if this is not the case now, who will prove me a liar and make my words worthless?