I am sought by those who did not ask for me; I am found by those who did not seek me: I said, "Behold me, behold me," to a nation that was not called by my name.  
I have extended my hands all day to a rebellious people, who walk in a way that is not good, following their own thoughts;  
A people that continually provoke me to anger in my presence; who sacrifice in gardens and burn incense on altars of brick;  
Who dwell among the graves and lodge in monuments, who eat swine's flesh, and whose vessels contain broth of abominable things;  
Who say, "Stand apart, do not come near to me; for I am holier than you." These are a smoke in my nostrils, a fire that burns all day.  
Behold, it is written before me: I will not remain silent, but will repay, even repay into their bosom,  
Your iniquities, and the iniquities of your fathers together, says the LORD, who have burned incense on the mountains and blasphemed me on the hills: therefore, I will measure their former deeds into their bosom.  
Thus says the LORD, As new wine is found in the cluster, and one says, "Do not destroy it; for there is a blessing in it": so will I act for my servants' sake, that I may not destroy them all.  
And I will bring forth a seed from Jacob, and from Judah an inheritor of my mountains: and my elect shall inherit it, and my servants shall dwell there.  
And Sharon shall be a fold for flocks, and the valley of Achor a resting place for herds, for my people who have sought me.  
But you are those who forsake the LORD, who forget my holy mountain, who prepare a table for that troop, and furnish a drink offering to that number.  
Therefore, I will number you for the sword, and you shall all bow down to the slaughter: because when I called, you did not answer; when I spoke, you did not hear; but did evil in my sight, and chose what I did not delight in.  
Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD, Behold, my servants shall eat, but you shall be hungry: behold, my servants shall drink, but you shall be thirsty: behold, my servants shall rejoice, but you shall be ashamed:  
Behold, my servants shall sing for joy of heart, but you shall cry for sorrow of heart, and shall wail for vexation of spirit.  
And you shall leave your name as a curse to my chosen: for the Lord GOD shall slay you, and call his servants by another name:  
That he who blesses himself in the earth shall bless himself in the God of truth; and he who swears in the earth shall swear by the God of truth; because the former troubles are forgotten, and they are hidden from my eyes.  
For behold, I create new heavens and a new earth: and the former shall not be remembered, nor come to mind.  
But be glad and rejoice forever in that which I create: for behold, I create Jerusalem as a rejoicing, and her people as a joy.  
And I will rejoice in Jerusalem, and take joy in my people: and the voice of weeping shall no longer be heard in her, nor the voice of crying.  
There shall no longer be an infant of days, nor an old man who has not filled his days: for the child shall die at a hundred years old; but the sinner being a hundred years old shall be accursed.  
And they shall build houses and inhabit them; and they shall plant vineyards and eat their fruit.  
They shall not build, and another inhabit; they shall not plant, and another eat: for as the days of a tree are the days of my people, and my elect shall long enjoy the work of their hands.  
They shall not labor in vain, nor bear children for trouble; for they are the seed of the blessed of the LORD, and their offspring with them.  
And it shall come to pass, that before they call, I will answer; and while they are yet speaking, I will hear.  
The wolf and the lamb shall feed together, and the lion shall eat straw like the bullock: and dust shall be the serpent's food. They shall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain, says the LORD.