Hear this word, you cattle of Bashan, who are in the mountains of Samaria, who oppress the poor, crush the needy, and say to your masters, "Bring, and let us drink."
The Lord GOD has sworn by His holiness that, behold, the days are coming upon you when He will take you away with hooks, and your descendants with fishhooks.
And you shall go out through the breaches, each cow in front of her; and you shall be cast into the palace, says the LORD.
Come to Bethel and transgress; at Gilgal, multiply your transgressions; and bring your sacrifices every morning, and your tithes after three years.
And offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving with leaven, and proclaim and publish the freewill offerings; for this pleases you, O children of Israel, says the Lord GOD.
And I also have given you cleanness of teeth in all your cities, and a lack of bread in all your places; yet you have not returned to me, says the LORD.
And I have withheld the rain from you when there were still three months to the harvest; I caused it to rain on one city, and withheld it from another city; one piece was rained upon, and the piece where it did not rain withered.
So two or three cities wandered to one city to drink water, but they were not satisfied; yet you have not returned to me, says the LORD.
I have struck you with blight and mildew; when your gardens, vineyards, fig trees, and olive trees increased, the locust devoured them; yet you have not returned to me, says the LORD.
I have sent among you the pestilence in the manner of Egypt; I have slain your young men with the sword and taken away your horses; I have made the stench of your camps rise to your nostrils; yet you have not returned to me, says the LORD.
I have overthrown some of you as God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah, and you were like a firebrand plucked from the burning; yet you have not returned to me, says the LORD.
Therefore, thus will I do to you, O Israel; and because I will do this to you, prepare to meet your God, O Israel.
For behold, He who forms the mountains, creates the wind, and declares to man what is his thought, who makes the morning darkness and treads upon the high places of the earth, the LORD, the God of hosts, is His name.
