These are the sons of Israel: Reuben, Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, and Zebulun;  
Dan, Joseph, and Benjamin; Naphtali, Gad, and Asher.  
The sons of Judah are Er, Onan, and Shelah, three born to him by the daughter of Shua the Canaanitess. Er, the firstborn of Judah, was wicked in the sight of the LORD, and He killed him.  
Tamar, his daughter-in-law, bore him Pharez and Zerah. All the sons of Judah totaled five.  
The sons of Pharez are Hezron and Hamul.  
The sons of Zerah are Zimri, Ethan, Heman, Calcol, and Dara, making five in total.  
The sons of Carmi are Achar, the troubler of Israel, who transgressed in the accursed matter.  
The sons of Ethan are Azariah.  
The sons of Hezron, born to him, are Jerahmeel, Ram, and Chelubai.  
Ram begat Amminadab, and Amminadab begat Nahshon, the prince of the children of Judah;  
Nahshon begat Salma, and Salma begat Boaz.  
Boaz begat Obed, and Obed begat Jesse.  
Jesse begat his firstborn Eliab, and Abinadab the second, and Shimma the third;  
Nethaneel the fourth, Raddai the fifth;  
Ozem the sixth, and David the seventh.  
His sisters were Zeruiah and Abigail. The sons of Zeruiah are Abishai, Joab, and Asahel, three in total.  
Abigail bore Amasa, whose father was Jether the Ishmeelite.  
Caleb, the son of Hezron, had children by Azubah his wife and by Jerioth; her sons are Jesher, Shobab, and Ardon.  
After Azubah died, Caleb took Ephrath, who bore him Hur.  
Hur begat Uri, and Uri begat Bezaleel.  
Later, Hezron married the daughter of Machir, the father of Gilead, when he was sixty years old; she bore him Segub.  
Segub begat Jair, who had twenty-three cities in the land of Gilead.  
He took Geshur and Aram, along with the towns of Jair, and Kenath, and its towns, totaling sixty cities. All these belonged to the sons of Machir, the father of Gilead.  
After Hezron died in Calebephratah, Abiah, Hezron's wife, bore him Ashur, the father of Tekoa.  
The sons of Jerahmeel, the firstborn of Hezron, are Ram the firstborn, Bunah, Oren, Ozem, and Ahijah.  
Jerahmeel also had another wife named Atarah; she was the mother of Onam.  
The sons of Ram, the firstborn of Jerahmeel, are Maaz, Jamin, and Eker.  
The sons of Onam are Shammai and Jada. The sons of Shammai are Nadab and Abishur.  
The name of Abishur's wife was Abihail, and she bore him Ahban and Molid.  
The sons of Nadab are Seled and Appaim; Seled died without children.  
The sons of Appaim are Ishi. The sons of Ishi are Sheshan. The children of Sheshan are Ahlai.  
The sons of Jada, the brother of Shammai, are Jether and Jonathan; Jether died without children.  
The sons of Jonathan are Peleth and Zaza. These are the sons of Jerahmeel.  
Now Sheshan had no sons, only daughters. He had a servant, an Egyptian named Jarha.  
Sheshan gave his daughter to Jarha, his servant, as a wife; she bore him Attai.  
Attai begat Nathan, and Nathan begat Zabad;  
Zabad begat Ephlal, and Ephlal begat Obed;  
Obed begat Jehu, and Jehu begat Azariah;  
Azariah begat Helez, and Helez begat Eleasah;  
Eleasah begat Sisamai, and Sisamai begat Shallum;  
Shallum begat Jekamiah, and Jekamiah begat Elishama.  
Now the sons of Caleb, the brother of Jerahmeel, are Mesha, his firstborn, who was the father of Ziph; and the sons of Mareshah, the father of Hebron.  
The sons of Hebron are Korah, Tappuah, Rekem, and Shema.  
Shema begat Raham, the father of Jorkoam; Rekem begat Shammai.  
The son of Shammai was Maon, and Maon was the father of Bethzur.  
Ephah, Caleb's concubine, bore Haran, Moza, and Gazez; Haran begat Gazez.  
The sons of Jahdai are Regem, Jotham, Gesham, Pelet, Ephah, and Shaaph.  
Maachah, Caleb's concubine, bore Sheber and Tirhanah.  
She also bore Shaaph, the father of Madmannah, Sheva, the father of Machbenah, and the father of Gibea; Caleb's daughter was Achsa.  
These are the sons of Caleb, the son of Hur, the firstborn of Ephratah: Shobal, the father of Kirjathjearim;  
Salma, the father of Bethlehem; Hareph, the father of Bethgader.  
Shobal, the father of Kirjathjearim, had sons: Haroeh and half of the Manahethites.  
The families of Kirjathjearim are the Ithrites, Puhites, Shumathites, and Mishraites; from them came the Zareathites and Eshtaulites.  
The sons of Salma are Bethlehem, the Netophathites, Ataroth, the house of Joab, and half of the Manahethites, the Zorites.  
The families of the scribes who dwelt at Jabez are the Tirathites, Shimeathites, and Suchathites. These are the Kenites descended from Hemath, the father of the house of Rechab.