Moreover, he said to me, "Son of man, eat what you find; eat this scroll, and go speak to the house of Israel."  
So I opened my mouth, and he caused me to eat the scroll.  
And he said to me, "Son of man, fill your stomach and consume this scroll that I give you." So I ate it, and it was as sweet as honey in my mouth.  
Then he said to me, "Son of man, go to the house of Israel and speak my words to them."  
For you are not sent to a people of foreign speech and difficult language, but to the house of Israel;  
Not to many people of foreign speech and difficult language, whose words you cannot understand. Surely, if I had sent you to them, they would have listened to you.  
But the house of Israel will not listen to you, for they will not listen to me; for the entire house of Israel is obstinate and hard-hearted.  
Behold, I have made your face strong against their faces, and your forehead strong against their foreheads.  
Like a diamond harder than flint, I have made your forehead; do not fear them, nor be dismayed at their looks, though they are a rebellious house.  
Moreover, he said to me, "Son of man, receive all my words that I speak to you in your heart, and listen with your ears.  
And go to the captives, to the children of your people, and speak to them, and tell them, 'Thus says the Lord GOD,' whether they will listen or refuse."  
Then the Spirit lifted me up, and I heard behind me a voice of a great rushing, saying, "Blessed be the glory of the LORD from His place."  
I also heard the noise of the wings of the living creatures touching one another, and the noise of the wheels beside them, and a great rushing sound.  
So the Spirit lifted me up and took me away, and I went in bitterness, in the heat of my spirit; but the hand of the LORD was strong upon me.  
Then I came to the captives at Telabib, who dwelt by the river Chebar, and I sat where they sat, and remained there astonished among them for seven days.  
And it came to pass at the end of seven days that the word of the LORD came to me, saying,  
"Son of man, I have made you a watchman for the house of Israel; therefore, hear the word from my mouth and give them warning from me.  
When I say to the wicked, 'You shall surely die,' and you do not warn him or speak to warn the wicked from his wicked way to save his life, that wicked man shall die in his iniquity; but I will require his blood at your hand.  
Yet if you warn the wicked, and he does not turn from his wickedness or from his wicked way, he shall die in his iniquity; but you have delivered your soul.  
Again, when a righteous man turns from his righteousness and commits iniquity, and I lay a stumbling block before him, he shall die; because you have not warned him, he shall die in his sin, and his righteousness which he has done shall not be remembered; but I will require his blood at your hand.  
Nevertheless, if you warn the righteous man, and the righteous does not sin, he shall surely live because he is warned; also, you have delivered your soul.  
And the hand of the LORD was upon me there, and he said to me, "Arise, go out into the plain, and I will speak with you there."  
Then I arose and went out into the plain; and behold, the glory of the LORD stood there, as the glory which I saw by the river Chebar, and I fell on my face.  
Then the Spirit entered into me and set me on my feet, and spoke with me, and said to me, "Go, shut yourself inside your house.  
But you, O son of man, behold, they will put ropes upon you and bind you with them, and you shall not go out among them.  
And I will make your tongue stick to the roof of your mouth, so that you shall be mute and not be to them a reprover; for they are a rebellious house.  
But when I speak with you, I will open your mouth, and you shall say to them, 'Thus says the Lord GOD.' He who hears, let him hear; and he who refuses, let him refuse; for they are a rebellious house."