He who is often reproved and hardens his neck will be suddenly destroyed, and that without remedy.
When the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice; but when the wicked rule, the people mourn.
Whoever loves wisdom brings joy to his father; but he who associates with harlots wastes his substance.
The king establishes the land through judgment; but he who accepts bribes overthrows it.
A man who flatters his neighbor sets a trap for his feet.
In the transgression of an evil man, there is a snare; but the righteous sing and rejoice.
The righteous consider the cause of the poor; but the wicked do not care to know it.
Scornful men bring a city into a snare; but wise men turn away wrath.
If a wise man contends with a foolish man, whether he rages or laughs, there is no rest.
The bloodthirsty hate the upright; but the just seek his soul.
A fool expresses all his thoughts; but a wise man keeps them to himself until later.
If a ruler listens to lies, all his servants are wicked.
The poor and the deceitful man meet together; the LORD enlightens both their eyes.
The king who judges the poor with faithfulness will have his throne established forever.
The rod and reproof give wisdom; but a child left to himself brings shame to his mother.
When the wicked are multiplied, transgression increases; but the righteous will see their downfall.
Correct your son, and he will give you rest; yes, he will bring delight to your soul.
Where there is no vision, the people perish; but he who keeps the law is happy.
A servant will not be corrected by mere words; for though he understands, he will not respond.
Do you see a man who is hasty in his words? There is more hope for a fool than for him.
He who delicately raises his servant from childhood will eventually have him as a son.
An angry man stirs up strife, and a furious man abounds in transgression.
A man's pride will bring him low; but honor will uphold the humble in spirit.
Whoever partners with a thief hates his own soul; he hears cursing but does not disclose it.
The fear of man brings a snare; but whoever puts his trust in the LORD will be safe.
Many seek the ruler's favor; but every man's judgment comes from the LORD.
An unjust man is an abomination to the just; and he who is upright in his way is an abomination to the wicked.
