When you go out to battle against your enemies and see horses, chariots, and a people more numerous than you, do not be afraid of them; for the LORD your God is with you, who brought you up from the land of Egypt.
And when you draw near to the battle, the priest shall approach and speak to the people,
And shall say to them, "Hear, O Israel, you are approaching this day for battle against your enemies: do not let your hearts faint, fear not, and do not tremble, nor be terrified because of them;
For the LORD your God goes with you to fight for you against your enemies, to save you."
And the officers shall speak to the people, saying, "What man is there who has built a new house and has not dedicated it? Let him go and return to his house, lest he die in the battle and another man dedicate it.
And what man is there who has planted a vineyard and has not yet eaten of it? Let him also go and return to his house, lest he die in the battle and another man eat of it.
And what man is there who has betrothed a wife and has not taken her? Let him go and return to his house, lest he die in the battle and another man take her.
And the officers shall speak further to the people, saying, "What man is there who is fearful and fainthearted? Let him go and return to his house, lest his brother's heart faint as well as his own."
And when the officers have finished speaking to the people, they shall appoint captains of the armies to lead the people.
When you approach a city to fight against it, then proclaim peace to it.
And if it responds to you with peace and opens to you, then it shall be that all the people found therein shall become tributaries to you, and they shall serve you.
But if it does not make peace with you and instead makes war against you, then you shall besiege it.
And when the LORD your God has delivered it into your hands, you shall strike every male in it with the edge of the sword.
But the women, the little ones, the cattle, and all that is in the city, even all its spoil, you shall take for yourself; and you shall eat the spoil of your enemies, which the LORD your God has given you.
Thus you shall do to all the cities that are very far from you, which are not of the cities of these nations.
But of the cities of these peoples, which the LORD your God gives you for an inheritance, you shall save alive nothing that breathes.
But you shall utterly destroy them; namely, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites, as the LORD your God has commanded you,
So that they do not teach you to do according to all their abominations, which they have done to their gods; and so you would sin against the LORD your God.
When you besiege a city for a long time, making war against it to take it, you shall not destroy its trees by wielding an axe against them; for you may eat from them, and you shall not cut them down (for the tree of the field is man's life) to use them in the siege.
Only the trees which you know are not trees for food, you shall destroy and cut down; and you shall build siege works against the city that makes war with you, until it is subdued.
