And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,  
"Son of man, prophesy against the shepherds of Israel; prophesy and say to them, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: Woe to the shepherds of Israel who feed themselves! Should not the shepherds feed the flocks?'"  
"You eat the fat, and you clothe yourselves with the wool; you kill those that are fed, but you do not feed the flock."  
"You have not strengthened the diseased, nor have you healed the sick, nor have you bound up the broken, nor have you brought back what was driven away, nor have you sought what was lost; but with force and cruelty you have ruled them."  
"And they were scattered because there was no shepherd; they became food for all the beasts of the field when they were scattered."  
"My sheep wandered through all the mountains and upon every high hill; yes, my flock was scattered over all the face of the earth, and no one searched or sought after them."  
"Therefore, you shepherds, hear the word of the LORD:"  
"As I live, says the Lord GOD, surely because my flock has become prey, and my flock has become food for every beast of the field, because there was no shepherd, and my shepherds did not search for my flock, but the shepherds fed themselves and did not feed my flock;"  
"Therefore, O shepherds, hear the word of the LORD:"  
"Thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I am against the shepherds; I will require my flock at their hand, and I will cause them to cease from feeding the flock; nor shall the shepherds feed themselves anymore; for I will deliver my flock from their mouth, that they may not be food for them."  
"For thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I, even I, will both search for my sheep and seek them out."  
"As a shepherd seeks out his flock on the day he is among his sheep that are scattered, so will I seek out my sheep and deliver them from all places where they have been scattered on the cloudy and dark day."  
"And I will bring them out from the peoples and gather them from the countries, and I will bring them to their own land, and feed them on the mountains of Israel, by the rivers, and in all the inhabited places of the country."  
"I will feed them in a good pasture, and on the high mountains of Israel shall be their fold; there they shall lie down in a good fold, and in a fat pasture they shall feed on the mountains of Israel."  
"I will feed my flock, and I will cause them to lie down, says the Lord GOD."  
"I will seek what was lost, and bring back what was driven away, bind up what was broken, and strengthen what was sick; but I will destroy the fat and the strong; I will feed them with judgment."  
"And as for you, O my flock, thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I judge between cattle and cattle, between the rams and the goats."  
"Is it a small thing for you to have eaten up the good pasture, but you must tread down with your feet the residue of your pastures? And to have drunk of the deep waters, but you must foul the residue with your feet?"  
"And as for my flock, they eat what you have trodden with your feet, and they drink what you have fouled with your feet."  
"Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD to them: Behold, I, even I, will judge between the fat cattle and the lean cattle."  
"Because you have thrust with side and shoulder, and pushed all the diseased with your horns, till you have scattered them abroad;"  
"Therefore, I will save my flock, and they shall no longer be a prey; and I will judge between cattle and cattle."  
"And I will set up one shepherd over them, and he shall feed them, even my servant David; he shall feed them, and he shall be their shepherd."  
"And I, the LORD, will be their God, and my servant David a prince among them; I, the LORD, have spoken it."  
"And I will make with them a covenant of peace, and cause the evil beasts to cease from the land; and they shall dwell safely in the wilderness and sleep in the woods."  
"And I will make them and the places around my hill a blessing; and I will cause the shower to come down in its season; there shall be showers of blessing."  
"And the tree of the field shall yield its fruit, and the earth shall yield its increase; they shall be safe in their land, and they shall know that I am the LORD, when I have broken the bands of their yoke and delivered them from the hand of those who enslaved them."  
"And they shall no longer be a prey to the nations, nor shall the beasts of the land devour them; but they shall dwell safely, and none shall make them afraid."  
"And I will raise up for them a plant of renown, and they shall no longer be consumed with hunger in the land, nor bear the shame of the nations anymore."  
"Thus they shall know that I, the LORD their God, am with them, and that they, the house of Israel, are my people, says the Lord GOD."  
"And you, my flock, the flock of my pasture, are men, and I am your God, says the Lord GOD."