These things I have spoken to you, so that you should not be offended.
They will expel you from the synagogues; indeed, the time is coming when anyone who kills you will think they are offering a service to God.
And they will do these things to you because they have not known the Father or me.
But I have told you these things so that when their time comes, you may remember that I told you. I did not say these things to you at the beginning because I was with you.
But now I am going to him who sent me; and none of you asks me, "Where are you going?"
But because I have said these things to you, sorrow has filled your heart.
Nevertheless, I tell you the truth: It is for your benefit that I go away; for if I do not go away, the Comforter will not come to you; but if I depart, I will send him to you.
And when he comes, he will convict the world of sin, righteousness, and judgment:
Of sin, because they do not believe in me;
Of righteousness, because I am going to my Father, and you will see me no more;
Of judgment, because the ruler of this world has been judged.
I still have many things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now.
However, when he, the Spirit of truth, comes, he will guide you into all truth; for he will not speak on his own authority, but whatever he hears, he will speak, and he will declare to you the things that are to come.
He will glorify me, for he will take what is mine and declare it to you.
All that the Father has is mine; therefore, I said that he will take what is mine and declare it to you.
In a little while, you will not see me; and again, in a little while, you will see me, because I am going to the Father.
Then some of his disciples said to one another, "What is this that he says to us, 'A little while, and you will not see me; and again, a little while, and you will see me'; and, 'Because I am going to the Father'?"
So they were saying, "What does he mean by 'a little while'? We do not understand what he is saying."
Now Jesus knew that they wanted to ask him, and he said to them, "Are you inquiring among yourselves about what I said, 'A little while, and you will not see me; and again, a little while, and you will see me'?"
Truly, truly, I say to you, you will weep and mourn, but the world will rejoice; you will be sorrowful, but your sorrow will turn into joy.
A woman, when she is in labor, has sorrow because her hour has come; but when she has given birth to the child, she no longer remembers the anguish, for joy that a human being has been born into the world.
So you have sorrow now, but I will see you again, and your hearts will rejoice, and no one will take your joy from you.
And in that day, you will ask me nothing. Truly, truly, I say to you, whatever you ask the Father in my name, he will give it to you.
Until now, you have asked nothing in my name; ask, and you will receive, that your joy may be full.
I have spoken these things to you in figurative language; but the time is coming when I will no longer speak to you in figurative language, but will tell you plainly about the Father.
In that day, you will ask in my name; and I do not say to you that I will ask the Father on your behalf.
For the Father himself loves you, because you have loved me and have believed that I came from God.
I came from the Father and have come into the world; again, I am leaving the world and going to the Father.
His disciples said to him, "Now you are speaking plainly and not using figurative language.
Now we know that you know all things and do not need anyone to question you; by this, we believe that you came from God."
Jesus answered them, "Do you now believe?
Behold, the hour is coming, indeed it has come, when you will be scattered, each to his own home, and you will leave me alone; yet I am not alone, for the Father is with me.
I have said these things to you, that in me you may have peace. In the world, you will have tribulation; but take heart; I have overcome the world.
