Now, therefore, listen, O Israel, to the statutes and judgments that I teach you, so that you may do them and live, and enter and possess the land that the LORD God of your fathers is giving you.  
You shall not add to the word that I command you, nor shall you diminish anything from it, so that you may keep the commandments of the LORD your God that I command you.  
Your eyes have seen what the LORD did because of Baalpeor: all the men who followed Baalpeor, the LORD your God has destroyed from among you.  
But you who clung to the LORD your God are all alive today.  
Behold, I have taught you statutes and judgments, just as the LORD my God commanded me, so that you should do them in the land where you go to possess it.  
Therefore, keep and do them; for this is your wisdom and understanding in the sight of the nations, which will hear all these statutes and say, "Surely this great nation is a wise and understanding people."  
For what nation is so great, that has God so near to them, as the LORD our God is in all things we call upon Him for?  
And what nation is so great, that has statutes and judgments so righteous as this law, which I set before you today?  
Only take heed to yourselves, and keep your soul diligently, lest you forget the things your eyes have seen, and lest they depart from your heart all the days of your life: but teach them to your children and your grandchildren;  
Especially the day you stood before the LORD your God at Horeb, when the LORD said to me, "Gather the people together, and I will make them hear my words, that they may learn to fear me all the days they live upon the earth, and that they may teach their children."  
And you came near and stood at the foot of the mountain; and the mountain burned with fire to the midst of heaven, with darkness, clouds, and thick darkness.  
And the LORD spoke to you out of the midst of the fire: you heard the voice of the words, but saw no form; you only heard a voice.  
And He declared to you His covenant, which He commanded you to perform, even the ten commandments; and He wrote them on two tablets of stone.  
And the LORD commanded me at that time to teach you statutes and judgments, that you might do them in the land where you go to possess it.  
Take good heed to yourselves; for you saw no manner of similitude on the day the LORD spoke to you at Horeb out of the midst of the fire:  
Lest you corrupt yourselves, and make a graven image, the likeness of any figure, the likeness of male or female,  
The likeness of any beast that is on the earth, the likeness of any winged fowl that flies in the air,  
The likeness of anything that creeps on the ground, the likeness of any fish that is in the waters beneath the earth:  
And lest you lift up your eyes to heaven, and when you see the sun, the moon, and the stars, even all the host of heaven, you be driven to worship them, and serve them, which the LORD your God has divided to all nations under the whole heaven.  
But the LORD has taken you, and brought you out of the iron furnace, even out of Egypt, to be to Him a people of inheritance, as you are this day.  
Furthermore, the LORD was angry with me for your sakes, and swore that I should not go over Jordan, and that I should not enter that good land, which the LORD your God is giving you for an inheritance:  
But I must die in this land, I must not go over Jordan: but you shall go over and possess that good land.  
Take heed to yourselves, lest you forget the covenant of the LORD your God, which He made with you, and make a graven image, or the likeness of anything, which the LORD your God has forbidden you.  
For the LORD your God is a consuming fire, even a jealous God.  
When you beget children and grandchildren, and have remained long in the land, and corrupt yourselves, and make a graven image, or the likeness of anything, and do evil in the sight of the LORD your God, provoking Him to anger:  
I call heaven and earth to witness against you this day, that you shall soon utterly perish from the land where you go over Jordan to possess it; you shall not prolong your days upon it, but shall utterly be destroyed.  
And the LORD shall scatter you among the nations, and you shall be left few in number among the heathen, where the LORD shall lead you.  
And there you shall serve gods, the work of men's hands, wood and stone, which neither see, nor hear, nor eat, nor smell.  
But if from there you seek the LORD your God, you shall find Him, if you seek Him with all your heart and with all your soul.  
When you are in tribulation, and all these things come upon you, even in the latter days, if you turn to the LORD your God, and are obedient to His voice;  
(For the LORD your God is a merciful God;) He will not forsake you, nor destroy you, nor forget the covenant of your fathers which He swore to them.  
For ask now of the days that are past, which were before you, since the day that God created man upon the earth, and ask from one side of heaven to the other, whether there has been any such thing as this great thing, or has been heard like it?  
Did any people ever hear the voice of God speaking out of the midst of the fire, as you have heard, and live?  
Or has God attempted to go and take a nation from the midst of another nation, by temptations, by signs, and by wonders, and by war, and by a mighty hand, and by a stretched-out arm, and by great terrors, according to all that the LORD your God did for you in Egypt before your eyes?  
To you it was shown, that you might know that the LORD, He is God; there is none else beside Him.  
Out of heaven, He made you hear His voice, that He might instruct you: and upon earth, He showed you His great fire; and you heard His words out of the midst of the fire.  
And because He loved your fathers, therefore He chose their seed after them, and brought you out in His sight with His mighty power out of Egypt;  
To drive out nations from before you greater and mightier than you are, to bring you in, to give you their land for an inheritance, as it is this day.  
Know therefore this day, and consider it in your heart, that the LORD, He is God in heaven above, and upon the earth beneath: there is none else.  
You shall keep therefore His statutes, and His commandments, which I command you this day, that it may go well with you, and with your children after you, and that you may prolong your days upon the earth, which the LORD your God gives you, forever.  
Then Moses set apart three cities on this side of Jordan toward the sunrising;  
That the slayer might flee there, who should kill his neighbor unawares, and hated him not in times past; and that fleeing to one of these cities he might live:  
Namely, Bezer in the wilderness, in the plain country, of the Reubenites; and Ramoth in Gilead, of the Gadites; and Golan in Bashan, of the Manassites.  
And this is the law which Moses set before the children of Israel:  
These are the testimonies, and the statutes, and the judgments, which Moses spoke to the children of Israel, after they came forth out of Egypt.  
On this side of Jordan, in the valley opposite Bethpeor, in the land of Sihon king of the Amorites, who dwelt at Heshbon, whom Moses and the children of Israel struck, after they came forth out of Egypt:  
And they possessed his land, and the land of Og king of Bashan, two kings of the Amorites, which were on this side of Jordan toward the sunrising;  
From Aroer, which is by the bank of the river Arnon, even to Mount Sion, which is Hermon,  
And all the plain on this side of Jordan eastward, even to the sea of the plain, under the springs of Pisgah.