Pursue love and desire spiritual gifts, especially that you may prophesy.
For he who speaks in a tongue does not speak to men, but to God; no one understands him, yet in the spirit, he speaks mysteries.
But he who prophesies speaks to men for their edification, encouragement, and comfort.
He who speaks in a tongue edifies himself, but he who prophesies edifies the church.
I wish you all spoke in tongues, but even more that you prophesied; for greater is he who prophesies than he who speaks in tongues, unless he interprets, so that the church may receive edification.
Now, brothers, if I come to you speaking in tongues, how will I benefit you unless I speak to you by revelation, knowledge, prophesying, or teaching?
Even lifeless things that produce sound, whether flute or harp, if they do not give a distinction in the sounds, how will it be known what is played?
For if the trumpet gives an uncertain sound, who will prepare for battle?
So likewise, unless you utter by the tongue words that are easy to understand, how will it be known what is spoken? For you will be speaking into the air.
There are, perhaps, many kinds of voices in the world, and none of them is without meaning.
Therefore, if I do not know the meaning of the voice, I will be a foreigner to the one who speaks, and the one who speaks will be a foreigner to me.
Even so, you, since you are eager for spiritual gifts, seek to excel in building up the church.
Therefore, let him who speaks in a tongue pray that he may interpret.
For if I pray in a tongue, my spirit prays, but my understanding is unfruitful.
What then? I will pray with the spirit, and I will pray with the understanding also; I will sing with the spirit, and I will sing with the understanding also.
Otherwise, when you bless with the spirit, how will the one who occupies the place of the uninformed say Amen at your giving of thanks, since he does not understand what you say?
For you indeed give thanks well, but the other is not edified.
I thank my God, I speak in tongues more than all of you;
Yet in the church, I would rather speak five words with my understanding, that I may teach others also, than ten thousand words in a tongue.
Brothers, do not be children in understanding; however, in malice be infants, but in understanding be mature.
In the law, it is written: "With men of other tongues and other lips, I will speak to this people; yet for all that, they will not hear me," says the Lord.
Therefore, tongues are for a sign, not to those who believe, but to those who do not believe; while prophesying is not for those who do not believe, but for those who believe.
If, therefore, the whole church comes together in one place, and all speak in tongues, and there come in those who are uninformed or unbelievers, will they not say that you are out of your mind?
But if all prophesy, and an unbeliever or an uninformed person comes in, he is convinced by all, he is judged by all;
And thus the secrets of his heart are revealed; and so, falling down on his face, he will worship God and report that God is truly among you.
How is it then, brothers? Whenever you come together, each of you has a psalm, a teaching, a tongue, a revelation, or an interpretation. Let all things be done for edification.
If anyone speaks in a tongue, let there be two or at the most three, each in turn, and let one interpret.
But if there is no interpreter, let him keep silent in the church, and let him speak to himself and to God.
Let two or three prophets speak, and let the others judge.
But if anything is revealed to another who sits by, let the first keep silent.
For you can all prophesy one by one, that all may learn and all may be encouraged.
And the spirits of the prophets are subject to the prophets.
For God is not the author of confusion, but of peace, as in all the churches of the saints.
Let your women keep silent in the churches, for it is not permitted for them to speak; but they are to be submissive, as the law also says.
And if they want to learn anything, let them ask their husbands at home; for it is shameful for women to speak in the church.
What? Did the word of God originate with you, or did it come to you only?
If anyone thinks himself to be a prophet or spiritual, let him acknowledge that the things which I write to you are the commandments of the Lord.
But if anyone is ignorant, let him be ignorant.
Therefore, brethren, desire to prophesy, and do not forbid to speak with tongues.
Let all things be done decently and in order.
