Then Eliphaz the Temanite responded and said,
Can a man be of any benefit to God, as a wise person may be to themselves?
Is it of any pleasure to the Almighty that you are righteous? Or is it of any gain to Him that you make your ways perfect?
Will He correct you out of fear of you? Will He enter into judgment with you?
Is not your wickedness great? And are your iniquities not infinite?
For you have taken a pledge from your brother for nothing, and stripped the naked of their clothing.
You have not given water to the weary to drink, and you have withheld bread from the hungry.
But as for the mighty man, he possessed the earth; and the honorable man dwelt in it.
You have sent widows away empty, and the arms of the fatherless have been broken.
Therefore, snares are all around you, and sudden fear troubles you;
Or darkness, so that you cannot see; and an abundance of waters covers you.
Is not God in the heights of heaven? And behold the height of the stars, how high they are!
And you say, How does God know? Can He judge through the dark cloud?
Thick clouds are a covering for Him, so that He cannot see; and He walks in the circuit of heaven.
Have you marked the old way that wicked men have trodden?
Which were cut down before their time, whose foundation was overflowed with a flood:
Which said to God, Depart from us: and what can the Almighty do for them?
Yet He filled their houses with good things; but the counsel of the wicked is far from me.
The righteous see it and are glad; and the innocent laugh them to scorn.
Whereas our substance is not cut down, but the remnant of them the fire consumes.
Acquaint yourself now with Him, and be at peace; thereby good shall come to you.
Receive, I pray, the law from His mouth, and lay up His words in your heart.
If you return to the Almighty, you shall be built up; you shall put away iniquity far from your tents.
Then you shall lay up gold as dust, and the gold of Ophir as the stones of the brooks.
Yes, the Almighty shall be your defense, and you shall have plenty of silver.
For then you shall take delight in the Almighty, and lift up your face to God.
You shall make your prayer to Him, and He shall hear you; and you shall pay your vows.
You shall also decree a thing, and it shall be established for you; and light shall shine upon your ways.
When men are cast down, then you shall say, There is lifting up; and He shall save the humble person.
He shall deliver the island of the innocent; and it is delivered by the purity of your hands.
