Here are the edited lines:

These are the territories that the children of Israel inherited in the land of Canaan, which Eleazar the priest, Joshua the son of Nun, and the leaders of the tribes of the children of Israel allocated to them as their inheritance.  
Their inheritance was determined by lot, as the LORD commanded through Moses, for the nine tribes and the half-tribe.  
Moses had assigned the inheritance of two tribes and a half-tribe on the other side of the Jordan River; however, he did not give any inheritance to the Levites among them.  
The children of Joseph comprised two tribes, Manasseh and Ephraim; therefore, they did not allocate any land to the Levites, except for cities to dwell in, along with their surrounding areas for their livestock and possessions.  
As the LORD instructed Moses, the children of Israel followed through and divided the land.  
Then the children of Judah approached Joshua in Gilgal, and Caleb, the son of Jephunneh the Kenezite, said to him, "You know what the LORD said to Moses, the man of God, concerning you and me at Kadeshbarnea."  
I was forty years old when Moses, the servant of the LORD, sent me from Kadeshbarnea to scout the land, and I reported back to him as it was in my heart.  
However, my fellow travelers who went up with me caused the hearts of the people to melt; but I completely followed the LORD my God.  
On that day, Moses swore, saying, "Surely the land on which your feet have walked will be your inheritance and that of your children forever, because you have fully followed the LORD my God."  
And now, behold, the LORD has kept me alive, as He promised, these forty-five years since the LORD spoke this word to Moses while the children of Israel wandered in the wilderness; and now, look, I am eighty-five years old today.  
I am just as strong today as I was the day Moses sent me; my strength is the same now as it was then, for battle, both to go out and to come in.  
Now, therefore, give me this mountain of which the LORD spoke on that day; for you heard on that day how the Anakim were there, and that the cities were large and fortified. If the LORD is with me, I will be able to drive them out, as the LORD said.  
And Joshua blessed him and gave Caleb the son of Jephunneh Hebron as an inheritance.  
Thus, Hebron became the inheritance of Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenezite to this day, because he fully followed the LORD God of Israel.  
Hebron was formerly known as Kirjatharba; Arba was a great man among the Anakim. And the land had rest from war.