The burden concerning Damascus: Behold, Damascus will cease to be a city and will become a heap of ruins.
The cities of Aroer are abandoned; they will be places for flocks to lie down, and no one will frighten them.
The fortress will also vanish from Ephraim, along with the kingdom from Damascus and the remnant of Syria; they will be like the glory of the children of Israel, says the LORD of hosts.
And in that day, it will come to pass that the glory of Jacob will diminish, and the fatness of his flesh will grow lean.
It will be like when the harvestman gathers the corn and reaps the ears with his arm; it will be like one who gathers ears in the valley of Rephaim.
Yet gleaning grapes will be left in it, like the shaking of an olive tree—two or three berries on the topmost bough, four or five on the outermost fruitful branches, says the LORD God of Israel.
On that day, a man will look to his Maker, and his eyes will regard the Holy One of Israel.
He will not look to the altars, the work of his hands, nor will he respect what his fingers have made, whether groves or images.
On that day, his strong cities will be like a forsaken bough and an uppermost branch, which they abandoned because of the children of Israel; there will be desolation.
Because you have forgotten the God of your salvation and have not been mindful of the rock of your strength, you will plant pleasant plants and set them with strange slips.
In the day, you will make your plant grow, and in the morning, you will make your seed flourish; but the harvest will be a heap in the day of grief and desperate sorrow.
Woe to the multitude of many people, who make a noise like the roaring of the seas; and to the rushing of nations, that sound like the rushing of mighty waters!
The nations will rush like the rushing of many waters; but God will rebuke them, and they will flee far away, chased like chaff on the mountains before the wind, and like a rolling thing before the whirlwind.
And behold, at evening, there is trouble; and before morning, he is gone. This is the fate of those who plunder us, and the lot of those who rob us.
