If there is a dispute between individuals and they come to judgment, the judges shall render their decisions; they will vindicate the innocent and condemn the guilty.
If a wicked person deserves to be punished, the judge shall have him lie down and be beaten in his presence, according to his wrongdoing, with a specified number of stripes.
He may administer up to forty stripes, but not exceed that number; otherwise, if he were to exceed and inflict more than this, your brother would be degraded in your eyes.
You shall not muzzle the ox while it is treading out the grain.
If brothers live together and one of them dies without having a child, the widow of the deceased shall not marry outside to a stranger; rather, her husband's brother shall go in to her, take her as his wife, and fulfill the duty of a brother-in-law.
The firstborn son she bears shall carry on the name of his deceased brother, so that his name will not be erased from Israel.
If the man does not wish to take his brother's wife, then his brother's wife shall go to the gate to the elders and say, "My husband's brother refuses to raise up a name for his brother in Israel; he will not fulfill the duty of a brother-in-law."
The elders of his city shall summon him and speak to him; if he persists and says, "I do not wish to take her,"
then his brother's wife shall approach him in the presence of the elders, remove his sandal from his foot, spit in his face, and declare, "So shall it be done to the man who will not build up his brother's house."
His name shall be known in Israel as "The house of him whose sandal was removed."
When men quarrel with one another, and the wife of one draws near to rescue her husband from the hand of the assailant, and she reaches out her hand and grabs him by his private parts,
then you shall cut off her hand; you must not show pity.
You shall not have in your bag differing weights, one heavy and one light.
You shall not have in your house differing measures, one large and one small.
You must have a full and fair weight; you must have a full and fair measure, so that your days may be prolonged in the land that the LORD your God is giving you.
For all who do such things, and all who act unjustly, are an abomination to the LORD your God.
Remember what Amalek did to you on the way as you were coming out of Egypt;
how he encountered you on the way and struck down those who were lagging behind, all the feeble ones, when you were weary and faint; and he did not fear God.
Therefore, when the LORD your God has given you rest from all your enemies surrounding you in the land that the LORD your God is giving you to possess as an inheritance, you shall blot out the memory of Amalek from under heaven; you must not forget.
