Then I looked, and behold, in the firmament above the heads of the cherubim, there appeared over them a sapphire stone, resembling the likeness of a throne.  
And he spoke to the man clothed in linen, saying, "Go between the wheels, even under the cherub, and fill your hand with coals of fire from between the cherubim, and scatter them over the city." And he went in my sight.  
Now the cherubim stood on the right side of the house when the man entered, and the cloud filled the inner court.  
Then the glory of the LORD ascended from the cherub and stood over the threshold of the house; the house was filled with the cloud, and the court was full of the brightness of the LORD's glory.  
The sound of the cherubim's wings was heard even to the outer court, like the voice of the Almighty God when He speaks.  
And it came to pass, when he commanded the man clothed in linen, saying, "Take fire from between the wheels, from between the cherubim," he went in and stood beside the wheels.  
One cherub stretched forth his hand from between the cherubim to the fire that was between them, took some, and put it into the hands of the man clothed in linen, who took it and went out.  
And there appeared in the cherubim the form of a man's hand under their wings.  
When I looked, behold, the four wheels by the cherubim, one wheel by one cherub and another wheel by another cherub; the appearance of the wheels was like the color of a beryl stone.  
As for their appearances, they four had one likeness, as if a wheel had been in the midst of a wheel.  
When they moved, they went in their four directions; they did not turn as they went, but followed the direction the head looked; they did not turn as they moved.  
Their entire body, backs, hands, wings, and wheels were full of eyes all around, even the wheels that they four had.  
As for the wheels, it was cried out in my hearing, "O wheel."  
Each had four faces: the first face was that of a cherub, the second was that of a man, the third was that of a lion, and the fourth was that of an eagle.  
The cherubim were lifted up; this is the living creature I saw by the river Chebar.  
When the cherubim moved, the wheels moved alongside them; when the cherubim lifted their wings to ascend from the earth, the wheels did not turn away from them.  
When they stood, these stood; and when they were lifted up, these lifted themselves up as well, for the spirit of the living creature was in them.  
Then the glory of the LORD departed from the threshold of the house and stood over the cherubim.  
The cherubim lifted their wings and ascended from the earth in my sight; as they went out, the wheels were beside them, and each stood at the door of the east gate of the LORD's house; the glory of the God of Israel was above them.  
This is the living creature I saw under the God of Israel by the river Chebar, and I knew they were the cherubim.  
Each had four faces and four wings, and the likeness of a man's hands was under their wings.  
The likeness of their faces was the same as those I saw by the river Chebar; their appearances and themselves: they each went straight forward.