Paul, a prisoner of Jesus Christ, and Timothy our brother, to Philemon our dearly beloved and fellow laborer,
And to our beloved Apphia, and Archippus our fellow soldier, and to the church in your house:
Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
I thank my God, always mentioning you in my prayers,
Hearing of your love and faith, which you have toward the Lord Jesus and all the saints;
That the sharing of your faith may become effective by acknowledging every good thing that is in you in Christ Jesus.
For we have great joy and consolation in your love, because the hearts of the saints are refreshed by you, brother.
Therefore, although I could be very bold in Christ to command you what is proper,
Yet for love's sake, I rather appeal to you, being such a one as Paul the aged, and now also a prisoner of Jesus Christ.
I appeal to you for my son Onesimus, whom I have begotten while in my chains:
Who in the past was unprofitable to you, but now is profitable to you and to me:
I am sending him back to you, therefore receive him, that is, my own heart:
Whom I would have retained with me, that in your place he might have ministered to me in the chains of the gospel:
But without your consent, I would do nothing; that your good deed should not be by compulsion, but voluntarily.
For perhaps he departed for a while for this purpose, that you might receive him forever;
Not now as a servant, but above a servant, a beloved brother, especially to me, but how much more to you, both in the flesh and in the Lord?
If you count me as a partner, receive him as you would me.
If he has wronged you or owes you anything, put that on my account;
I, Paul, have written it with my own hand, I will repay it; although I do not mention to you that you owe me even your own self besides.
Yes, brother, let me have joy from you in the Lord; refresh my heart in the Lord.
Having confidence in your obedience, I wrote to you, knowing that you will also do more than I say.
But also prepare me a lodging, for I trust that through your prayers I shall be granted to you.
Epaphras, my fellow prisoner in Christ Jesus, greets you;
Marcus, Aristarchus, Demas, and Luke, my fellow laborers.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen.
