And it came to pass, when Solomon had completed the construction of the house of the LORD, the king's palace, and all that he desired to accomplish,  
That the LORD appeared to Solomon a second time, as He had previously appeared to him at Gibeon.  
And the LORD said to him, I have heard your prayer and your supplication that you have made before me: I have consecrated this house, which you have built, to put my name there forever; and my eyes and my heart shall be there perpetually.  
And if you will walk before me, as David your father walked, in integrity of heart and in uprightness, to do according to all that I have commanded you, and will keep my statutes and my judgments:  
Then I will establish the throne of your kingdom over Israel forever, as I promised to David your father, saying, There shall not fail you a man upon the throne of Israel.  
But if you turn away from following me, you or your children, and do not keep my commandments and my statutes which I have set before you, but go and serve other gods, and worship them:  
Then I will cut off Israel from the land which I have given them; and this house, which I have consecrated for my name, I will cast out of my sight; and Israel shall become a proverb and a byword among all peoples.  
And at this house, which is high, everyone who passes by it shall be astonished and shall hiss; and they shall say, Why has the LORD done this to this land and to this house?  
And they shall answer, Because they forsook the LORD their God, who brought their fathers out of the land of Egypt, and embraced other gods, and worshipped them, and served them: therefore the LORD has brought upon them all this evil.  
And it came to pass at the end of twenty years, when Solomon had built the two houses, the house of the LORD and the king's palace,  
(Now Hiram, king of Tyre, had supplied Solomon with cedar trees and fir trees, and with gold, according to all his desire,) that then King Solomon gave Hiram twenty cities in the land of Galilee.  
And Hiram came out from Tyre to see the cities which Solomon had given him; but they did not please him.  
And he said, What cities are these that you have given me, my brother? And he called them the land of Cabul to this day.  
And Hiram sent to the king six score talents of gold.  
And this is the reason for the levy which King Solomon raised; to build the house of the LORD, his own house, Millo, the wall of Jerusalem, and Hazor, Megiddo, and Gezer.  
For Pharaoh, king of Egypt, had gone up and taken Gezer, and burned it with fire, and slain the Canaanites who dwelt in the city, and given it as a present to his daughter, Solomon's wife.  
And Solomon built Gezer, and Bethhoron the lower,  
And Baalath, and Tadmor in the wilderness, in the land,  
And all the store cities that Solomon had, and cities for his chariots, and cities for his horsemen, and whatever Solomon desired to build in Jerusalem, in Lebanon, and in all the land of his dominion.  
And all the people that were left of the Amorites, Hittites, Perizzites, Hivites, and Jebusites, who were not of the children of Israel,  
Their children that remained in the land, whom the children of Israel were not able to utterly destroy, upon those did Solomon impose a tribute of forced labor to this day.  
But of the children of Israel, Solomon made no bondmen; they were men of war, his servants, his princes, his captains, and rulers of his chariots and horsemen.  
These were the chief officers who were over Solomon's work, five hundred and fifty, who ruled over the people who worked in the project.  
But Pharaoh's daughter came up from the city of David to her house which Solomon had built for her; then he built Millo.  
And three times a year, Solomon offered burnt offerings and peace offerings on the altar which he built to the LORD, and he burned incense on the altar that was before the LORD. So he completed the house.  
And King Solomon made a navy of ships in Eziongeber, which is beside Eloth, on the shore of the Red Sea, in the land of Edom.  
And Hiram sent his servants, skilled shipmen, with the servants of Solomon in the navy.  
And they went to Ophir and brought back from there four hundred and twenty talents of gold, and delivered it to King Solomon.