Then Eliashib the high priest rose up with his fellow priests, and they built the sheep gate; they consecrated it and set up its doors; as far as the tower of Meah they consecrated it, up to the tower of Hananeel.  
Next to him, the men of Jericho built. Next to them, Zaccur the son of Imri built.  
The sons of Hassenaah built the fish gate; they also laid its beams and set up its doors, locks, and bars.  
Next to them, Meremoth the son of Urijah, the son of Koz, repaired. Next to him, Meshullam the son of Berechiah, the son of Meshezabeel, repaired. Next to him, Zadok the son of Baana repaired.  
Next to them, the Tekoites repaired; however, their nobles did not put their shoulders to the work of their LORD.  
Moreover, Jehoiada the son of Paseah and Meshullam the son of Besodeiah repaired the old gate; they laid its beams and set up its doors, locks, and bars.  
Next to them, Melatiah the Gibeonite and Jadon the Meronothite, men of Gibeon and Mizpah, repaired up to the throne of the governor on this side of the river.  
Next to him, Uzziel the son of Harhaiah, of the goldsmiths, repaired. Next to him, Hananiah the son of one of the apothecaries repaired, and they fortified Jerusalem up to the broad wall.  
Next to them, Rephaiah the son of Hur, the ruler of half of Jerusalem, repaired.  
Next to them, Jedaiah the son of Harumaph repaired, directly opposite his house. Next to him, Hattush the son of Hashabniah repaired.  
Malchijah the son of Harim and Hashub the son of Pahathmoab repaired another section, including the tower of the furnaces.  
Next to him, Shallum the son of Halohesh, the ruler of half of Jerusalem, repaired, along with his daughters.  
The valley gate was repaired by Hanun and the inhabitants of Zanoah; they built it, set up its doors, locks, and bars, and a thousand cubits on the wall up to the dung gate.  
Malchiah the son of Rechab, the ruler of part of Bethhaccerem, repaired the dung gate; he built it and set up its doors, locks, and bars.  
Shallun the son of Colhozeh, the ruler of part of Mizpah, repaired the fountain gate; he built it, covered it, set up its doors, locks, and bars, and the wall of the pool of Siloah by the king's garden, and to the stairs that go down from the city of David.  
After him, Nehemiah the son of Azbuk, the ruler of half of Bethzur, repaired up to the place opposite the sepulchres of David, to the pool that was made, and to the house of the mighty.  
After him, the Levites, Rehum the son of Bani, repaired. Next to him, Hashabiah, the ruler of half of Keilah, repaired in his section.  
After him, their brethren, Bavai the son of Henadad, the ruler of half of Keilah, repaired.  
Next to him, Ezer the son of Jeshua, the ruler of Mizpah, repaired another section opposite the ascent to the armory at the turning of the wall.  
After him, Baruch the son of Zabbai earnestly repaired another section, from the turning of the wall to the door of the house of Eliashib the high priest.  
After him, Meremoth the son of Urijah, the son of Koz, repaired another section, from the door of the house of Eliashib to the end of his house.  
After him, the priests, the men of the plain, repaired.  
After him, Benjamin and Hashub repaired opposite their house. After him, Azariah the son of Maaseiah, the son of Ananiah, repaired by his house.  
After him, Binnui the son of Henadad repaired another section, from the house of Azariah to the turning of the wall, up to the corner.  
Palal the son of Uzai repaired opposite the turning of the wall and the tower that projects from the king's high house, near the court of the prison. After him, Pedaiah the son of Parosh repaired.  
Moreover, the Nethinims lived in Ophel, opposite the water gate toward the east, and the tower that projects.  
After them, the Tekoites repaired another section, opposite the great tower that projects, up to the wall of Ophel.  
From above the horse gate, the priests repaired, each one opposite his house.  
After them, Zadok the son of Immer repaired opposite his house. After him, Shemaiah the son of Shechaniah, the keeper of the east gate, repaired.  
After him, Hananiah the son of Shelemiah and Hanun the sixth son of Zalaph repaired another section. After him, Meshullam the son of Berechiah repaired opposite his chamber.  
After him, Malchiah the son of the goldsmith repaired up to the place of the Nethinims and the merchants, opposite the gate Miphkad, and to the ascent of the corner.  
Between the ascent of the corner and the sheep gate, the goldsmiths and merchants repaired.