You shall construct an altar for burning incense: it shall be made of acacia wood.  
Its length shall be one cubit, and its width shall also be one cubit; it shall be square, and its height shall be two cubits; its horns shall be of the same material.  
You shall overlay it with pure gold, its top, its sides all around, and its horns; and you shall make a gold crown around it.  
You shall make two golden rings for it, under the crown, on its two sides; these shall be places for the poles to carry it.  
You shall make the poles of acacia wood and overlay them with gold.  
You shall place it in front of the veil that is near the Ark of the Testimony, in front of the mercy seat that is over the Testimony, where I will meet with you.  
Aaron shall burn fragrant incense on it every morning when he tends the lamps.  
And when Aaron lights the lamps in the evening, he shall burn incense on it, a perpetual incense before the LORD throughout your generations.  
You shall not offer any strange incense on it, nor burnt offerings, nor grain offerings; nor shall you pour drink offerings on it.  
Aaron shall make atonement on its horns once a year with the blood of the sin offering for atonement; once a year he shall make atonement for it throughout your generations: it is most holy to the LORD.  
The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,  
When you take a census of the children of Israel, each one shall give a ransom for his soul to the LORD when you number them; so that no plague may come upon them when you number them.  
This is what they shall give, everyone who is numbered: half a shekel according to the shekel of the sanctuary (a shekel is twenty gerahs); half a shekel shall be the offering to the LORD.  
Everyone who is numbered, from twenty years old and above, shall give an offering to the LORD.  
The rich shall not give more, and the poor shall not give less than half a shekel, when they give an offering to the LORD, to make atonement for your souls.  
You shall take the atonement money from the children of Israel and use it for the service of the tabernacle of the congregation; it shall be a memorial for the children of Israel before the LORD, to make atonement for your souls.  
The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,  
You shall also make a bronze laver, with a bronze base, for washing; and you shall place it between the tabernacle of the congregation and the altar, and you shall put water in it.  
Aaron and his sons shall wash their hands and feet from it.  
When they go into the tabernacle of the congregation, they shall wash with water, so that they do not die; and when they come near to the altar to minister, to burn an offering made by fire to the LORD,  
They shall wash their hands and feet, so that they do not die; this shall be a permanent statute for them, and for him and his descendants throughout their generations.  
Moreover, the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,  
Take for yourself principal spices: five hundred shekels of pure myrrh, and two hundred and fifty shekels of sweet cinnamon, and two hundred and fifty shekels of sweet calamus,  
And five hundred shekels of cassia, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, and an hin of olive oil.  
You shall make it into a holy anointing oil, a compound made by the perfumer; it shall be a holy anointing oil.  
You shall anoint the tabernacle of the congregation with it, and the Ark of the Testimony,  
And the table and all its utensils, and the lampstand and its utensils, and the altar of incense,  
And the altar of burnt offering with all its utensils, and the laver and its base.  
You shall consecrate them, so that they may be most holy; whatever touches them shall be holy.  
You shall anoint Aaron and his sons, and consecrate them, that they may serve Me as priests.  
You shall say to the children of Israel, "This shall be a holy anointing oil to Me throughout your generations."  
It shall not be poured on man's flesh, nor shall you make any other like it, according to its composition; it is holy, and it shall be holy to you.  
Whoever compounds any like it, or whoever puts any of it on a stranger, shall be cut off from his people.  
The LORD said to Moses, "Take sweet spices: stacte, onycha, and galbanum; these sweet spices with pure frankincense, of each there shall be an equal weight.  
You shall make it into a perfume, a confection made by the perfumer, tempered together, pure and holy.  
You shall crush some of it very fine and put it before the testimony in the tabernacle of the congregation, where I will meet with you; it shall be most holy to you.  
As for the perfume you shall make, you shall not make it for yourselves according to its composition; it shall be holy to you for the LORD.  
Whoever makes anything like it, to smell it, shall be cut off from his people.