The children of Israel committed evil in the sight of the LORD, and as a result, the LORD allowed them to be oppressed by Midian for seven years.  
The Midianites gained the upper hand against Israel, and due to their oppression, the Israelites made dens, caves, and strongholds in the mountains.  
When Israel had sown their crops, the Midianites, along with the Amalekites and the people from the east, came up against them.  
They camped against Israel and destroyed the produce of the land, reaching as far as Gaza, leaving no sustenance for Israel—neither sheep, oxen, nor donkeys.  
They came with their livestock and tents, overwhelming in number like locusts; both they and their camels were countless, entering the land to devastate it.  
Israel was greatly impoverished because of the Midianites, and the children of Israel cried out to the LORD for help.  
When the children of Israel cried out to the LORD because of the Midianites,  
the LORD sent a prophet to them, saying, "Thus says the LORD God of Israel: I brought you up from Egypt and delivered you from the house of bondage.  
I rescued you from the Egyptians and from all who oppressed you, driving them out before you and giving you their land.  
I said to you, 'I am the LORD your God; do not fear the gods of the Amorites, in whose land you dwell.' But you have not obeyed my voice."  
An angel of the LORD came and sat under an oak tree in Ophrah, belonging to Joash the Abiezrite; his son Gideon was threshing wheat in the winepress to hide it from the Midianites.  
The angel of the LORD appeared to him and said, "The LORD is with you, mighty warrior."  
Gideon replied, "Pardon me, my Lord, if the LORD is with us, why has all this happened to us? Where are all his wonders that our ancestors told us about, saying, 'Did not the LORD bring us up from Egypt?' But now the LORD has abandoned us and given us into the hands of the Midianites."  
The LORD turned to him and said, "Go in the strength you have and save Israel out of Midian's hand. Am I not sending you?"  
Gideon answered, "Pardon me, my Lord, but how can I save Israel? My clan is the weakest in Manasseh, and I am the least in my family."  
The LORD said to him, "I will be with you, and you will strike down all the Midianites, leaving none alive."  
Gideon replied, "If I have found favor in your eyes, give me a sign that it is really you talking to me.  
Please do not go away until I come back and bring my offering and set it before you." The LORD said, "I will wait until you return."  
Gideon went inside, prepared a young goat, and made unleavened bread from an ephah of flour. He put the meat in a basket and the broth in a pot, and brought them out to him under the oak and presented them.  
The angel of God said to him, "Take the meat and the unleavened bread and place them on this rock and pour out the broth." Gideon did so.  
Then the angel of the LORD touched the meat and the unleavened bread with the tip of the staff that was in his hand; fire flared from the rock, consuming the meat and the bread. The angel of the LORD disappeared.  
When Gideon realized that it was the angel of the LORD, he exclaimed, "Alas, Sovereign LORD! I have seen the angel of the LORD face to face!"  
But the LORD said to him, "Peace! Do not be afraid. You are not going to die."  
So Gideon built an altar to the LORD there and called it The LORD Is Peace. To this day it stands in Ophrah of the Abiezrites.  
That same night the LORD said to him, "Take the second bull from your father's herd, the one seven years old. Tear down your father's altar to Baal and cut down the Asherah pole beside it.  
Then build a proper altar to the LORD your God on the top of this height, using the wood of the Asherah pole that you cut down. Offer the second bull as a burnt offering."  
So Gideon took ten of his servants and did as the LORD told him. But because he was afraid of his family and the townspeople, he did it at night rather than in the daytime.  
Early the next morning, when the people of the town got up, there was Baal's altar, demolished, with the Asherah pole beside it cut down, and the second bull sacrificed on the newly built altar!  
They asked each other, "Who did this?" When they carefully investigated, they were told, "Gideon son of Joash did it."  
The people of the town demanded of Joash, "Bring out your son. He must die because he has broken down Baal's altar and cut down the Asherah pole beside it."  
But Joash replied to the hostile crowd around him, "Are you going to plead Baal's cause? Are you trying to save him? Whoever fights for him shall be put to death by morning. If Baal really is a god, he can defend himself when someone breaks down his altar."  
So because Gideon broke down Baal's altar, they gave him the name Jerub-Baal that day, saying, "Let Baal contend with him."  
Now all the Midianites, Amalekites, and other eastern peoples joined forces and crossed over the Jordan and camped in the Valley of Jezreel.  
Then the Spirit of the LORD came on Gideon, and he blew a trumpet, summoning the Abiezrites to follow him.  
He sent messengers throughout Manasseh, calling them to arms, and also into Asher, Zebulun, and Naphtali; so they went up to meet them.  
Gideon said to God, "If you will save Israel by my hand as you have promised—  
look, I will place a wool fleece on the threshing floor. If there is dew only on the fleece and all the ground is dry, then I will know that you will save Israel by my hand, as you said."  
And that is what happened. Gideon rose early the next day; he squeezed the fleece and wrung out the dew—a bowl full of water.  
Then Gideon said to God, "Do not be angry with me. Let me make just one more request. Allow me one more test with the fleece. This time make the fleece dry and the ground covered with dew."  
That night God did so. Only the fleece was dry; all the ground was covered with dew.