Would to God you could bear with me a little in my folly; indeed, bear with me.
For I am jealous over you with a godly jealousy; for I have espoused you to one husband, that I may present you as a chaste virgin to Christ.
But I fear, lest by any means, as the serpent beguiled Eve through his subtlety, so your minds should be corrupted from the simplicity that is in Christ.
For if he that comes preaches another Jesus, whom we have not preached, or if you receive another spirit, which you have not received, or another gospel, which you have not accepted, you might well bear with him.
For I suppose I was not at all behind the very chief apostles.
But though I may be rude in speech, I am not in knowledge; rather, we have been thoroughly made manifest among you in all things.
Have I committed an offense in abasing myself so that you might be exalted, because I have preached to you the gospel of God freely?
I robbed other churches, taking wages from them to serve you.
And when I was present with you and in need, I was chargeable to no man; for that which was lacking to me, the brethren who came from Macedonia supplied. In all things, I have kept myself from being burdensome to you, and so will I continue to do.
As the truth of Christ is in me, no man shall stop me from this boasting in the regions of Achaia.
Why? Because I do not love you? God knows.
But what I do, I will continue to do, so that I may cut off occasion from those who desire occasion; that in what they boast, they may be found even as we.
For such are false apostles, deceitful workers, transforming themselves into the apostles of Christ.
And no marvel; for Satan himself is transformed into an angel of light.
Therefore, it is no great thing if his ministers also be transformed as ministers of righteousness; whose end shall be according to their works.
I say again, let no man think of me as a fool; if otherwise, yet as a fool, receive me, that I may boast a little.
That which I speak, I do not speak after the Lord, but as it were foolishly, in this confidence of boasting.
Seeing that many glory after the flesh, I will glory also.
For you suffer fools gladly, seeing that you yourselves are wise.
For you suffer if a man brings you into bondage, if a man devours you, if a man takes from you, if a man exalts himself, if a man strikes you on the face.
I speak concerning reproach, as though we had been weak. However, in whatever anyone is bold (I speak foolishly), I am bold also.
Are they Hebrews? So am I. Are they Israelites? So am I. Are they the seed of Abraham? So am I.
Are they ministers of Christ? (I speak as a fool) I am more; in labors more abundant, in stripes above measure, in prisons more frequent, in deaths often.
Of the Jews, five times I received forty stripes minus one.
Thrice was I beaten with rods, once was I stoned, thrice I suffered shipwreck; a night and a day I have been in the deep.
In journeys often, in perils of waters, in perils of robbers, in perils by my own countrymen, in perils by the heathen, in perils in the city, in perils in the wilderness, in perils in the sea, in perils among false brethren;
In weariness and painfulness, in watchings often, in hunger and thirst, in fastings often, in cold and nakedness.
Besides those things that are without, that which comes upon me daily, the care of all the churches.
Who is weak, and I am not weak? Who is offended, and I do not burn?
If I must needs glory, I will glory in the things which concern my infirmities.
The God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who is blessed forevermore, knows that I lie not.
In Damascus, the governor under Aretas the king kept the city of the Damascenes with a garrison, desiring to apprehend me.
And through a window in a basket, I was let down by the wall and escaped his hands.
