When Ephraim spoke with fear, he elevated himself in Israel; but when he sinned by worshiping Baal, he perished.
And now they continue to sin increasingly, crafting molten images from their silver, and making idols based on their own understanding, all of it the handiwork of artisans: they say to those who sacrifice, "Let the men kiss the calves."
Therefore, they shall be like the morning cloud and the early dew that vanishes, like the chaff driven away by the whirlwind, and like smoke rising from a chimney.
Yet I am the LORD your God, who brought you up from the land of Egypt; you shall acknowledge no god but me, for there is no savior besides me.
I knew you in the wilderness, in the land of great drought.
According to their pasture, they were satisfied; they were filled, and their hearts became proud; therefore, they have forgotten me.
So I will be like a lion to them; like a leopard, I will watch them by the road.
I will confront them like a bear robbed of her cubs, and I will tear open the caul of their hearts; there I will devour them like a lion; the wild beast will tear them apart.
O Israel, you have brought destruction upon yourself; but in me is your help.
I will be your king: where is any other who can save you in all your cities? And your judges, of whom you said, "Give me a king and princes?"
I gave you a king in my anger, and I took him away in my wrath.
The iniquity of Ephraim is tightly bound; his sin is concealed.
The pains of a woman in labor shall come upon him; he is an unwise son, for he should not linger long in the place of childbirth.
I will redeem them from the power of the grave; I will rescue them from death: O death, I will be your plagues; O grave, I will be your destruction: repentance will be hidden from my eyes.
Though he is fruitful among his brothers, an east wind will come; the wind of the LORD will rise from the wilderness, and his spring will become dry, and his fountain will be parched: he will plunder the treasures of all delightful vessels.
Samaria will become desolate, for she has rebelled against her God; they will fall by the sword; their infants will be dashed to pieces, and their pregnant women will be ripped open.
