Be followers of me, just as I am a follower of Christ.
I commend you, brothers, for remembering me in everything and for holding to the traditions I passed on to you.
But I want you to know that the head of every man is Christ; the head of the woman is the man; and the head of Christ is God.
Every man who prays or prophesies with his head covered dishonors his head.
But every woman who prays or prophesies with her head uncovered dishonors her head; it is the same as having her head shaved.
For if a woman is not covered, she might as well have her hair cut off; but if it is shameful for a woman to have her hair cut off or shaved, she should cover her head.
A man should not cover his head, since he is the image and glory of God; but the woman is the glory of man.
For man did not come from woman, but woman came from man.
Neither was man created for woman, but woman for man.
For this reason, a woman ought to have a sign of authority on her head, because of the angels.
Nevertheless, in the Lord, neither is man independent of woman, nor woman independent of man.
For as woman came from man, so also man is born of woman; but everything comes from God.
Judge for yourselves: is it proper for a woman to pray to God with her head uncovered?
Does not nature itself teach you that if a man has long hair, it is a disgrace to him?
But if a woman has long hair, it is her glory; for long hair is given to her as a covering.
If anyone wants to be contentious about this, we have no other practice—nor do the churches of God.
Now, in this matter, I do not praise you, because your meetings do more harm than good.
For, in the first place, when you come together as a church, I hear that there are divisions among you, and to some extent, I believe it.
No doubt there have to be differences among you to show which of you have God’s approval.
So then, when you come together, it is not the Lord's Supper you eat,
for when you are eating, some of you go ahead with your own private suppers. As a result, one person remains hungry and another gets drunk.
Don’t you have homes to eat and drink in? Or do you despise the church of God by humiliating those who have nothing? What shall I say to you? Shall I praise you? Certainly not!
For I received from the Lord what I also passed on to you: The Lord Jesus, on the night he was betrayed, took bread,
and when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, “This is my body, which is for you; do this in remembrance of me.”
In the same way, after supper he took the cup, saying, “This cup is the new covenant in my blood; do this, whenever you drink it, in remembrance of me.”
For whenever you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord’s death until he comes.
So then, whoever eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty of sinning against the body and blood of the Lord.
Everyone ought to examine themselves before they eat of the bread and drink from the cup.
For those who eat and drink without discerning the body of Christ eat and drink judgment on themselves.
That is why many among you are weak and sick, and a number of you have fallen asleep.
But if we were more discerning with regard to ourselves, we would not come under such judgment.
Nevertheless, when we are judged in this way by the Lord, we are being disciplined so that we will not be finally condemned with the world.
So then, my brothers and sisters, when you gather to eat, you should all eat together.
Anyone who is hungry should eat something at home, so that when you meet together it may not result in judgment. And when I come, I will give further directions.
