And the fifth angel sounded, and I witnessed a star falling from heaven to the earth; to him was given the key to the bottomless pit.
He opened the bottomless pit, and smoke arose from it like the smoke of a great furnace; the sun and the air were darkened because of the smoke from the pit.
From the smoke emerged locusts upon the earth, and they were given power like that of the scorpions of the earth.
They were commanded not to harm the grass of the earth, nor any green thing or tree, but only those men who did not have the seal of God on their foreheads.
It was granted to them that they should not kill these men, but that they should be tormented for five months; their torment was like that of a scorpion when it strikes a man.
During those days, men will seek death but will not find it; they will long to die, and death will evade them.
The shapes of the locusts resembled horses prepared for battle; on their heads were crowns that looked like gold, and their faces resembled the faces of men.
They had hair like that of women, and their teeth were like the teeth of lions.
They wore breastplates that appeared to be made of iron; the sound of their wings was like the sound of many horses running into battle.
Their tails were like scorpions, and they had stings in their tails; their power was to harm men for five months.
They had a king over them, the angel of the bottomless pit, whose name in Hebrew is Abaddon, and in Greek, he is called Apollyon.
One woe has passed; behold, two more woes are yet to come.
When the sixth angel sounded, I heard a voice from the four horns of the golden altar before God,
Saying to the sixth angel who had the trumpet, "Release the four angels who are bound at the great river Euphrates."
The four angels were released, prepared for an hour, a day, a month, and a year, to kill a third of mankind.
The number of the army of horsemen was two hundred million; I heard their number.
In the vision, I saw the horses and those who sat on them, wearing breastplates of fire, jacinth, and brimstone; the heads of the horses were like the heads of lions, and from their mouths came fire, smoke, and brimstone.
By these three plagues, a third of mankind was killed: by the fire, the smoke, and the brimstone that came out of their mouths.
For their power lies in their mouths and in their tails; their tails are like serpents, having heads, and with them, they inflict harm.
The rest of the men who were not killed by these plagues did not repent of the works of their hands, so as not to worship demons and idols of gold, silver, brass, stone, and wood, which cannot see, hear, or walk.
Nor did they repent of their murders, sorceries, fornication, or thefts.
