David then departed from there and escaped to the cave of Adullam. When his brothers and all his father's household heard of it, they went down to him there.
Everyone who was in distress, in debt, or discontented gathered around him, and he became their captain; about four hundred men were with him.
David then went to Mizpeh in Moab and said to the king of Moab, "Please let my father and mother come and stay with you until I know what God will do for me."
He brought them before the king of Moab, and they stayed with him as long as David was in the stronghold.
The prophet Gad said to David, "Do not stay in the stronghold; depart and go to the land of Judah." So David left and went to the forest of Hareth.
When Saul heard that David had been discovered, and the men who were with him (Saul was staying in Gibeah under a tree in Ramah, holding his spear, with all his servants standing around him),
Saul said to his servants who were with him, "Listen now, you Benjamites; will the son of Jesse give every one of you fields and vineyards and make you all captains of thousands and captains of hundreds?
You have all conspired against me, and no one informs me that my son has made a covenant with the son of Jesse. None of you is sorry for me or informs me that my son has stirred up my servant against me to lie in wait, as he is doing today."
Then Doeg the Edomite, who was in charge of Saul's servants, answered, "I saw the son of Jesse coming to Nob, to Ahimelech the son of Ahitub.
He inquired of the LORD for him, gave him provisions, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistine."
Then the king sent for Ahimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all his father's household, the priests who were in Nob; and they all came to the king.
Saul said, "Listen now, son of Ahitub." He answered, "Here I am, my lord."
Saul said to him, "Why have you conspired against me, you and the son of Jesse, by giving him bread and a sword and inquiring of God for him, so that he would rise against me to lie in wait, as he is doing today?"
Ahimelech answered the king, "Who among all your servants is as faithful as David, the king's son-in-law, who goes at your bidding and is honored in your house?
Did I begin to inquire of God for him? Far be it from me! Let not the king impute anything to his servant or to any of my father's household, for your servant knew nothing of all this, not even a little."
The king said, "You shall surely die, Ahimelech, you and all your father's household."
The king said to the guards who stood around him, "Turn and kill the priests of the LORD, because their hand is also with David, and they knew when he fled and did not inform me." But the king's servants would not put forth their hand to strike the priests of the LORD.
Then the king said to Doeg, "You turn and kill the priests." So Doeg the Edomite turned and struck the priests, killing on that day eighty-five persons who wore a linen ephod.
He also struck Nob, the city of the priests, with the edge of the sword, both men and women, children and infants, oxen, donkeys, and sheep, with the edge of the sword.
One of the sons of Ahimelech, the son of Ahitub, named Abiathar, escaped and fled after David.
Abiathar informed David that Saul had killed the priests of the LORD.
David said to Abiathar, "I knew that day when Doeg the Edomite was there that he would surely tell Saul. I have caused the death of all the persons of your father's household.
Stay with me; do not be afraid, for he who seeks my life seeks your life, but with me, you shall be safe."
