Wine is a mocker, and strong drink causes rage; whoever is deceived by them is unwise.  
The fear of a king is like the roar of a lion; whoever provokes him to anger sins against their own soul.  
It is an honor for a man to refrain from strife, but every fool will meddle.  
The sluggard will not plow because of the cold; therefore, he will beg during harvest and have nothing.  
Counsel in a man's heart is like deep water, but a man of understanding will draw it out.  
Most men will proclaim their own goodness, but who can find a faithful man?  
The just man walks in his integrity; his children are blessed after him.  
A king who sits on the throne of judgment dispels all evil with his gaze.  
Who can say, "I have made my heart clean; I am pure from my sin"?  
Diverse weights and measures are both an abomination to the LORD.  
Even a child is known by his actions, whether his work is pure and right.  
The hearing ear and the seeing eye, the LORD has made both.  
Do not love sleep, lest you come to poverty; open your eyes, and you will be satisfied with bread.  
"It is nothing, it is nothing," says the buyer; but when he has gone his way, he boasts.  
There is gold and a multitude of rubies, but the lips of knowledge are a precious jewel.  
Take the garment of one who is surety for a stranger, and take a pledge from him for a strange woman.  
Bread gained by deceit is sweet to a man, but afterward, his mouth will be filled with gravel.  
Every purpose is established by counsel; with good advice, make war.  
He who goes about as a talebearer reveals secrets; therefore, do not associate with him who flatters with his lips.  
Whoever curses his father or mother, his lamp will be put out in obscure darkness.  
An inheritance may be gained hastily at the beginning, but its end will not be blessed.  
Do not say, "I will repay evil"; wait on the LORD, and He will save you.  
Diverse weights are an abomination to the LORD, and a false balance is not good.  
A man's steps are directed by the LORD; how then can a man understand his own way?  
It is a snare for a man to devour what is holy and then to make inquiry after vows.  
A wise king scatters the wicked and brings the wheel over them.  
The spirit of man is the candle of the LORD, searching all the inward parts of the belly.  
Mercy and truth preserve the king, and his throne is upheld by mercy.  
The glory of young men is their strength, and the beauty of old men is the gray head.  
The blueness of a wound cleanses away evil; so do stripes cleanse the inward parts of the belly.