Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, in accordance with the promise of life found in Christ Jesus,
To Timothy, my beloved son: Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.
I thank God, whom I serve with a pure conscience, as my forefathers did, that I remember you in my prayers night and day without ceasing;
I greatly desire to see you, mindful of your tears, so that I may be filled with joy;
When I recall the sincere faith that is in you, which first dwelt in your grandmother Lois and your mother Eunice; and I am convinced that it is in you also.
Therefore, I remind you to stir up the gift of God that is in you through the laying on of my hands.
For God has not given us a spirit of fear, but of power, love, and a sound mind.
Do not be ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me, His prisoner; but share in the sufferings for the gospel according to the power of God;
Who has saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to His own purpose and grace, which was given to us in Christ Jesus before the world began,
But has now been revealed by the appearing of our Savior Jesus Christ, who has abolished death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel:
For this reason, I am appointed a preacher, an apostle, and a teacher of the Gentiles.
For this reason, I also suffer these things; nevertheless, I am not ashamed, for I know whom I have believed, and I am convinced that He is able to guard what I have entrusted to Him until that day.
Hold on to the pattern of sound words that you have heard from me, in faith and love which are in Christ Jesus.
That good thing which was entrusted to you, guard through the Holy Spirit who dwells in us.
You know that all those in Asia have turned away from me, among whom are Phygellus and Hermogenes.
May the Lord grant mercy to the house of Onesiphorus, for he often refreshed me and was not ashamed of my chains;
But when he was in Rome, he sought me out very diligently and found me.
May the Lord grant him to find mercy from the Lord on that day; and you know very well how many ways he ministered to me at Ephesus.
