Adam, Sheth, Enosh,  
Kenan, Mahalaleel, Jared,  
Henoch, Methuselah, Lamech,  
Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.  
The sons of Japheth: Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech, and Tiras.  
And the sons of Gomer: Ashkenaz, Riphath, and Togarmah.  
And the sons of Javan: Elishah, Tarshish, Kittim, and Dodanim.  
The sons of Ham: Cush, Mizraim, Put, and Canaan.  
And the sons of Cush: Seba, Havilah, Sabta, Raamah, and Sabtecha. The sons of Raamah: Sheba and Dedan.  
And Cush begat Nimrod; he began to be mighty upon the earth.  
And Mizraim begat Ludim, Anamim, Lehabim, and Naphtuhim,  
And Pathrusim, Casluhim (from whom came the Philistines), and Caphthorim.  
And Canaan begat Zidon his firstborn, and Heth,  
The Jebusite, the Amorite, and the Girgashite,  
And the Hivite, the Arkite, and the Sinite,  
And the Arvadite, the Zemarite, and the Hamathite.  
The sons of Shem: Elam, Asshur, Arphaxad, Lud, Aram, Uz, Hul, Gether, and Meshech.  
And Arphaxad begat Shelah, and Shelah begat Eber.  
And unto Eber were born two sons: the name of one was Peleg, because in his days the earth was divided; and his brother's name was Joktan.  
And Joktan begat Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, and Jerah,  
Hadoram, Uzal, and Diklah,  
And Ebal, Abimael, and Sheba,  
And Ophir, Havilah, and Jobab. All these were the sons of Joktan.  
Shem, Arphaxad, Shelah,  
Eber, Peleg, Reu,  
Serug, Nahor, Terah,  
Abram; the same is Abraham.  
The sons of Abraham: Isaac and Ishmael.  
These are their generations: The firstborn of Ishmael, Nebaioth; then Kedar, Adbeel, Mibsam,  
Mishma, Dumah, Massa, Hadad, and Tema,  
Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. These are the sons of Ishmael.  
Now the sons of Keturah, Abraham's concubine: she bore Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah. And the sons of Jokshan: Sheba and Dedan.  
And the sons of Midian: Ephah, Epher, Henoch, Abida, and Eldaah. All these are the sons of Keturah.  
And Abraham begat Isaac. The sons of Isaac: Esau and Israel.  
The sons of Esau: Eliphaz, Reuel, Jeush, Jaalam, and Korah.  
The sons of Eliphaz: Teman, Omar, Zephi, Gatam, Kenaz, Timna, and Amalek.  
The sons of Reuel: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah.  
And the sons of Seir: Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah, Dishon, Ezar, and Dishan.  
And the sons of Lotan: Hori and Homam; and Timna was Lotan's sister.  
The sons of Shobal: Alian, Manahath, Ebal, Shephi, and Onam; and the sons of Zibeon: Aiah and Anah.  
The sons of Anah: Dishon. And the sons of Dishon: Amram, Eshban, Ithran, and Cheran.  
The sons of Ezer: Bilhan, Zavan, and Jakan. The sons of Dishan: Uz and Aran.  
Now these are the kings that reigned in the land of Edom before any king reigned over the children of Israel: Bela the son of Beor; and the name of his city was Dinhabah.  
And when Bela was dead, Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in his stead.  
And when Jobab was dead, Husham of the land of the Temanites reigned in his stead.  
And when Husham was dead, Hadad the son of Bedad, who smote Midian in the field of Moab, reigned in his stead; and the name of his city was Avith.  
And when Hadad was dead, Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his stead.  
And when Samlah was dead, Shaul of Rehoboth by the river reigned in his stead.  
And when Shaul was dead, Baalhanan the son of Achbor reigned in his stead.  
And when Baalhanan was dead, Hadad reigned in his stead; and the name of his city was Pai; and his wife's name was Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab.  
Hadad died also. And the dukes of Edom were: Duke Timnah, Duke Aliah, Duke Jetheth,  
Duke Aholibamah, Duke Elah, Duke Pinon,  
Duke Kenaz, Duke Teman, Duke Mibzar,  
Duke Magdiel, Duke Iram. These are the dukes of Edom.