I urge you, therefore, brothers and sisters, by the mercies of God, to present your bodies as a living sacrifice, holy and pleasing to God, which is your reasonable act of worship.
And do not conform to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, so that you may discern what is good, acceptable, and perfect will of God.
For I say, through the grace given to me, to every one of you, do not think of yourself more highly than you ought to think; rather, think of yourself with sober judgment, in accordance with the faith God has distributed to each of you.
For just as we have many parts in one body, and all parts do not have the same function:
So we, though many, are one body in Christ, and each member belongs to all the others.
We have different gifts, according to the grace given to us; if your gift is prophecy, then prophesy in accordance with your faith;
If it is serving, then serve; if it is teaching, then teach;
If it is to encourage, then give encouragement; if it is giving, then give generously; if it is to lead, do it diligently; if it is to show mercy, do it cheerfully.
Let love be genuine. Abhor what is evil; cling to what is good.
Be devoted to one another in love; honor one another above yourselves;
Never be lacking in zeal, but keep your spiritual fervor, serving the Lord;
Be joyful in hope, patient in affliction, faithful in prayer;
Share with the Lord’s people who are in need; practice hospitality.
Bless those who persecute you; bless and do not curse.
Rejoice with those who rejoice; mourn with those who mourn.
Live in harmony with one another. Do not be proud, but be willing to associate with people of low position. Do not be conceited.
Do not repay anyone evil for evil. Be careful to do what is right in the eyes of everyone.
If it is possible, as far as it depends on you, live at peace with everyone.
Do not take revenge, my dear friends, but leave room for God’s wrath, for it is written: “It is mine to avenge; I will repay,” says the Lord.
On the contrary, if your enemy is hungry, feed him; if he is thirsty, give him something to drink. In doing this, you will heap burning coals on his head.
Do not be overcome by evil, but overcome evil with good.
