Paul, an apostle (not appointed by men, nor through any human authority, but by Jesus Christ and God the Father, who raised Him from the dead),  
And all the brethren who are with me, to the churches of Galatia:  
Grace and peace be to you from God the Father and our Lord Jesus Christ,  
Who gave Himself for our sins, to deliver us from this present evil age, in accordance with the will of God our Father:  
To whom be glory forever and ever. Amen.  
I am astonished that you are so quickly turning away from Him who called you into the grace of Christ to a different gospel:  
Which is not really another; there are some who are troubling you and distorting the gospel of Christ.  
But even if we, or an angel from heaven, should preach a gospel contrary to the one we preached to you, let him be accursed.  
As we have said before, so I now say again: if anyone is preaching to you a gospel contrary to what you received, let him be accursed.  
Am I now trying to persuade men, or God? Or am I seeking to please men? If I were still trying to please men, I would not be a servant of Christ.  
But I assure you, brethren, that the gospel I preached is not of human origin.  
For I did not receive it from any man, nor was I taught it, but it came through a revelation of Jesus Christ.  
For you have heard of my former conduct in Judaism, how I intensely persecuted the church of God and tried to destroy it:  
And I advanced in Judaism beyond many of my contemporaries, being extremely zealous for the traditions of my fathers.  
But when God, who set me apart from my mother’s womb and called me by His grace, was pleased  
To reveal His Son in me, so that I might preach Him among the Gentiles, I did not consult with flesh and blood immediately:  
Nor did I go up to Jerusalem to those who were apostles before me; but I went into Arabia and returned again to Damascus.  
Then after three years, I went up to Jerusalem to visit Peter and remained with him for fifteen days.  
But I saw none of the other apostles, except James, the Lord’s brother.  
Now concerning the things I write to you, behold, before God, I do not lie.  
Afterward, I went into the regions of Syria and Cilicia;  
And I was still unknown by face to the churches of Judea that are in Christ:  
They only heard it said, “He who formerly persecuted us now preaches the faith he once tried to destroy.”  
And they glorified God because of me.