Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the command of God our Savior and our hope, the Lord Jesus Christ;
To Timothy, my true son in the faith: Grace, mercy, and peace from God our Father and Jesus Christ our Lord.
As I urged you to remain in Ephesus when I went to Macedonia, so that you might instruct certain individuals not to teach any different doctrine,
Nor pay attention to myths and endless genealogies, which promote controversies rather than the stewardship of God that is by faith; so do.
Now the goal of our instruction is love that comes from a pure heart, a good conscience, and sincere faith.
Some have deviated from these and turned to meaningless talk;
Desiring to be teachers of the law, they do not understand what they are saying or the matters about which they make confident assertions.
But we know that the law is good if one uses it lawfully;
Understanding this, that the law is not made for the righteous, but for the lawless and rebellious, for the ungodly and sinners, for the unholy and profane, for murderers of fathers and murderers of mothers, for manslayers,
For sexually immoral persons, for those who practice homosexuality, for slave traders, for liars, for perjurers, and for whatever else is contrary to sound teaching;
According to the glorious gospel of the blessed God, which has been entrusted to me.
I thank Christ Jesus our Lord, who has strengthened me, because he considered me faithful, appointing me to his service;
Even though I was formerly a blasphemer, a persecutor, and a violent man, I was shown mercy because I acted in ignorance and unbelief.
The grace of our Lord was poured out on me abundantly, along with the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus.
This is a trustworthy saying that deserves full acceptance: Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am the worst.
However, for this reason I was shown mercy, so that in me, the worst of sinners, Christ Jesus might display his immense patience as an example for those who would believe in him and receive eternal life.
Now to the King eternal, immortal, invisible, the only God, be honor and glory for ever and ever. Amen.
This charge I entrust to you, Timothy, my son, in accordance with the prophecies previously made about you, so that by them you may fight the good fight,
Holding on to faith and a good conscience. Some have rejected these and so have shipwrecked their faith;
Among them are Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I have handed over to Satan to be taught not to blaspheme.
