Here is the edited version of each line:

Fourteen years later, I went up to Jerusalem again with Barnabas, taking Titus along with me.  
I went up in response to a revelation and shared with them the gospel I preach among the Gentiles, but I did so privately with those of reputation, to ensure that I had not run or was not running in vain.  
Neither was Titus, who was with me and is a Greek, compelled to be circumcised.  
This was due to false brethren who had secretly infiltrated us, seeking to spy on our freedom in Christ Jesus, in order to bring us back into bondage.  
We did not yield to them for a moment, so that the truth of the gospel might remain with you.  
As for those who seemed to be influential (whatever they were makes no difference to me; God does not show favoritism), they added nothing to my message.  
On the contrary, when they recognized that the gospel of the uncircumcised had been entrusted to me, just as the gospel of the circumcised had been entrusted to Peter,  
(for the one who worked effectively in Peter for his apostleship to the circumcised was also active in me for the Gentiles),  
and when James, Cephas, and John, who seemed to be pillars, recognized the grace given to me, they extended to me and Barnabas the right hand of fellowship, agreeing that we should go to the Gentiles and they to the circumcised.  
They only asked us to remember the poor, which I was eager to do.  
However, when Peter came to Antioch, I opposed him to his face because he was clearly in the wrong.  
Before certain men came from James, he used to eat with the Gentiles; but when they arrived, he began to draw back and separate himself, fearing those who belonged to the circumcision.  
The other Jews joined him in his hypocrisy, so that even Barnabas was led astray by their hypocrisy.  
When I saw that they were not acting in line with the truth of the gospel, I said to Peter in front of them all, "You are a Jew, yet you live like a Gentile and not like a Jew. How is it then that you force Gentiles to follow Jewish customs?"  
We who are Jews by birth and not sinful Gentiles  
know that a person is not justified by the works of the law, but by faith in Jesus Christ. So we, too, have put our faith in Christ Jesus that we may be justified by faith in Christ and not by the works of the law, because by the works of the law no one will be justified.  
If, while we seek to be justified in Christ, we ourselves are found to be sinners, does that mean that Christ promotes sin? Absolutely not!  
If I rebuild what I destroyed, I prove that I am a lawbreaker.  
For through the law, I died to the law so that I might live for God.  
I have been crucified with Christ and I no longer live, but Christ lives in me. The life I now live in the body, I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me.  
I do not set aside the grace of God, for if righteousness could be gained through the law, Christ died for nothing.