The burden of the word of the LORD concerning the land of Hadrach, and Damascus shall find rest therein: when the eyes of mankind, along with all the tribes of Israel, shall be directed toward the LORD.  
Hamath shall also border it; Tyre and Sidon, though they are very wise.  
Tyre built herself a stronghold, accumulating silver like dust and fine gold like the mire of the streets.  
Behold, the LORD will cast her out, and He will strike her power in the sea; she shall be consumed by fire.  
Ashkelon shall witness it and fear; Gaza shall also see it and be filled with sorrow, as will Ekron; for her hopes shall be dashed, and the king shall perish from Gaza, and Ashkelon shall be uninhabited.  
A foreigner shall dwell in Ashdod, and I will cut off the pride of the Philistines.  
I will remove his blood from his mouth and his detestable idols from between his teeth: but he who remains, even he, shall be for our God, and he shall be like a governor in Judah, and Ekron shall be like a Jebusite.  
I will encamp around my house because of the army, because of those who pass by, and those who return: and no oppressor shall pass through them anymore; for now I have seen with my own eyes.  
Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion; shout, O daughter of Jerusalem: behold, your King comes to you; He is just and brings salvation; humble, and riding on a donkey, on a colt, the foal of a donkey.  
I will cut off the chariot from Ephraim, and the horse from Jerusalem, and the battle bow shall be cut off: He shall proclaim peace to the nations; His dominion shall extend from sea to sea, and from the river to the ends of the earth.  
As for you also, by the blood of your covenant, I have released your prisoners from the pit where there is no water.  
Turn to the stronghold, you prisoners of hope: today I declare that I will restore double to you;  
When I have bent Judah for myself, filled the bow with Ephraim, and raised up your sons, O Zion, against your sons, O Greece, and made you like the sword of a mighty man.  
The LORD shall be seen over them, and His arrow shall go forth like lightning: the LORD God shall blow the trumpet and shall go with whirlwinds from the south.  
The LORD of hosts shall defend them; they shall devour and subdue with sling stones; they shall drink and make a noise like wine; they shall be filled like bowls, like the corners of the altar.  
And the LORD their God shall save them in that day as the flock of His people: for they shall be like the jewels of a crown, lifted up as a banner upon His land.  
For how great is His goodness, and how great is His beauty! Grain shall make the young men joyful, and new wine the maidens.