And it shall be, when you enter the land that the LORD your God is giving you as an inheritance, and you possess it and dwell in it;  
That you shall take the first of all the fruit of the earth, which you shall bring from the land that the LORD your God is giving you, and put it in a basket, and go to the place that the LORD your God will choose to place His name there.  
And you shall go to the priest who is in those days, and say to him, "I declare today to the LORD your God that I have come to the land which the LORD swore to our ancestors to give us."  
And the priest shall take the basket from your hand and set it down before the altar of the LORD your God.  
And you shall speak and say before the LORD your God, "A Syrian ready to perish was my father; he went down to Egypt and sojourned there with a few, and became there a nation, great, mighty, and populous."  
And the Egyptians treated us harshly, afflicted us, and imposed hard labor upon us.  
And when we cried out to the LORD God of our fathers, the LORD heard our voice and looked upon our affliction, our labor, and our oppression.  
And the LORD brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand, an outstretched arm, great terror, and with signs and wonders.  
And He has brought us to this place and given us this land, a land flowing with milk and honey.  
And now, behold, I have brought the firstfruits of the land that you, O LORD, have given me. You shall set it before the LORD your God and worship before the LORD your God.  
And you shall rejoice in every good thing that the LORD your God has given you and your household, you, the Levite, and the stranger who is among you.  
When you have finished tithing all the tithes of your increase in the third year, which is the year of tithing, and have given it to the Levite, the stranger, the fatherless, and the widow, that they may eat within your gates and be filled;  
Then you shall say before the LORD your God, "I have removed the sacred portion from my house and have also given it to the Levite, the stranger, the fatherless, and the widow, according to all your commandments which you have commanded me. I have not transgressed your commandments, nor have I forgotten them."  
I have not eaten any of it while in mourning, nor have I removed any of it for an unclean use, nor given any of it for the dead; but I have listened to the voice of the LORD my God and have done according to all that you have commanded me.  
Look down from your holy habitation, from heaven, and bless your people Israel and the land that you have given us, as you swore to our fathers, a land flowing with milk and honey.  
This day the LORD your God has commanded you to observe these statutes and judgments; therefore, you shall keep and do them with all your heart and with all your soul.  
You have declared the LORD this day to be your God, and to walk in His ways, to keep His statutes, His commandments, and His judgments, and to listen to His voice.  
And the LORD has declared you this day to be His special people, as He has promised you, and that you should keep all His commandments;  
And to make you high above all nations which He has made, in praise, in name, and in honor; and that you may be a holy people to the LORD your God, as He has spoken.