Now, when Solomon had finished praying, fire descended from heaven and consumed the burnt offering and the sacrifices; the glory of the LORD filled the house.  
The priests could not enter the house of the LORD because the glory of the LORD had filled it.  
When all the children of Israel saw the fire come down and the glory of the LORD upon the house, they bowed their faces to the ground on the pavement, worshipped, and praised the LORD, saying, "For He is good; His mercy endures forever."  
Then the king and all the people offered sacrifices before the LORD.  
King Solomon offered a sacrifice of twenty-two thousand oxen and one hundred twenty thousand sheep; thus, the king and all the people dedicated the house of God.  
The priests attended to their duties, and the Levites played musical instruments of the LORD, which King David had made to praise the LORD, for His mercy endures forever, as David praised through their ministry; the priests sounded trumpets before them, and all Israel stood.  
Moreover, Solomon consecrated the middle of the court that was before the house of the LORD, where he offered burnt offerings and the fat of the peace offerings, because the bronze altar that Solomon had made could not accommodate the burnt offerings, the grain offerings, and the fat.  
At the same time, Solomon celebrated the feast for seven days, and all Israel joined him, a very large congregation, from the entrance of Hamath to the river of Egypt.  
On the eighth day, they held a solemn assembly; they kept the dedication of the altar for seven days and the feast for seven days.  
On the twenty-third day of the seventh month, he sent the people away to their tents, joyful and glad of heart for the goodness that the LORD had shown to David, to Solomon, and to Israel His people.  
Thus, Solomon completed the house of the LORD and the king's palace; everything that came into Solomon's heart to make in the house of the LORD and in his own house, he successfully accomplished.  
The LORD appeared to Solomon at night and said to him, "I have heard your prayer and have chosen this place for Myself as a house of sacrifice.  
If I shut up heaven so that there is no rain, or if I command locusts to devour the land, or if I send pestilence among My people;  
If My people, who are called by My name, will humble themselves, pray, seek My face, and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven, forgive their sin, and heal their land.  
Now My eyes will be open and My ears attentive to the prayer made in this place.  
For I have chosen and sanctified this house, that My name may be there forever; My eyes and My heart will be there perpetually.  
As for you, if you walk before Me as your father David walked, and do according to all that I have commanded you, and observe My statutes and My judgments;  
Then I will establish the throne of your kingdom, as I covenanted with David your father, saying, "There shall not fail you a man to be ruler in Israel."  
But if you turn away and forsake My statutes and My commandments, which I have set before you, and go and serve other gods and worship them;  
Then I will uproot them from My land, which I have given them; and this house, which I have sanctified for My name, I will cast out of My sight and make it a proverb and a byword among all nations.  
This house, which is high, will be an astonishment to everyone who passes by it; they will say, "Why has the LORD done this to this land and to this house?"  
It will be answered, "Because they forsook the LORD God of their fathers, who brought them out of the land of Egypt, and embraced other gods, worshipped them, and served them; therefore, He has brought all this evil upon them."