A false balance is an abomination to the LORD, but a just weight is His delight.  
When pride comes, then shame follows; but with the lowly is wisdom.  
The integrity of the upright shall guide them, but the perverseness of transgressors shall destroy them.  
Riches do not profit in the day of wrath, but righteousness delivers from death.  
The righteousness of the perfect shall direct his way, but the wicked shall fall by his own wickedness.  
The righteousness of the upright shall deliver them, but transgressors shall be caught in their own naughtiness.  
When a wicked man dies, his expectation shall perish, and the hope of unjust men perishes.  
The righteous are delivered out of trouble, and the wicked come in their stead.  
A hypocrite with his mouth destroys his neighbor, but through knowledge, the just are delivered.  
When it goes well with the righteous, the city rejoices; and when the wicked perish, there is shouting.  
By the blessing of the upright, the city is exalted, but it is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked.  
He who is void of wisdom despises his neighbor, but a man of understanding holds his peace.  
A talebearer reveals secrets, but he who is of a faithful spirit conceals the matter.  
Where there is no counsel, the people fall; but in the multitude of counselors, there is safety.  
He who is surety for a stranger shall suffer for it, and he who hates suretyship is secure.  
A gracious woman retains honor, and strong men retain riches.  
The merciful man does good to his own soul, but he who is cruel troubles his own flesh.  
The wicked work a deceitful work, but to him who sows righteousness shall be a sure reward.  
As righteousness tends to life, so he who pursues evil pursues it to his own death.  
Those with a froward heart are an abomination to the LORD, but those who are upright in their way are His delight.  
Though hand join in hand, the wicked shall not go unpunished, but the seed of the righteous shall be delivered.  
As a jewel of gold in a swine's snout, so is a fair woman who lacks discretion.  
The desire of the righteous is only good, but the expectation of the wicked is wrath.  
There are those who scatter, yet increase; and there are those who withhold more than is right, but it leads to poverty.  
The liberal soul shall be made fat, and he who waters shall also be watered himself.  
He who withholds corn, the people shall curse him, but blessing shall be upon the head of him who sells it.  
He who diligently seeks good procures favor, but he who seeks mischief, it shall come upon him.  
He who trusts in his riches shall fall, but the righteous shall flourish like a branch.  
He who troubles his own house shall inherit the wind, and the fool shall be servant to the wise of heart.  
The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life, and he who wins souls is wise.  
Behold, the righteous shall be recompensed on the earth; much more the wicked and the sinner.