And it came to pass, when all the kings of the Amorites, who were on the western side of the Jordan, and all the kings of the Canaanites, who were by the sea, heard that the LORD had dried up the waters of the Jordan before the children of Israel until they had crossed over, their hearts melted, and there was no spirit left in them because of the children of Israel.  
At that time, the LORD said to Joshua, "Make sharp knives and circumcise the children of Israel again a second time."  
So Joshua made sharp knives and circumcised the children of Israel at the hill of the foreskins.  
This is the reason why Joshua circumcised them: all the males of the people who came out of Egypt, even all the men of war, died in the wilderness along the way after they had come out of Egypt.  
Now all the people who came out were circumcised, but all the people born in the wilderness along the way as they came forth out of Egypt had not been circumcised.  
For the children of Israel wandered in the wilderness for forty years until all the men of war who came out of Egypt were consumed, because they did not obey the voice of the LORD; to whom the LORD swore that He would not show them the land which the LORD swore to their fathers He would give us, a land flowing with milk and honey.  
And their children, whom He raised up in their place, Joshua circumcised, for they were uncircumcised because they had not been circumcised along the way.  
And it came to pass, when they had finished circumcising all the people, they remained in their places in the camp until they were healed.  
And the LORD said to Joshua, "This day I have rolled away the reproach of Egypt from you." Therefore, the name of the place is called Gilgal to this day.  
And the children of Israel encamped at Gilgal and kept the Passover on the fourteenth day of the month at evening in the plains of Jericho.  
And they ate of the old corn of the land on the day after the Passover, unleavened cakes and parched grain on the same day.  
And the manna ceased the day after they had eaten of the old corn of the land; neither did the children of Israel have manna anymore, but they ate of the fruit of the land of Canaan that year.  
And it came to pass, when Joshua was near Jericho, that he lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, a man stood opposite him with his sword drawn in his hand. Joshua went to him and said, "Are you for us or for our adversaries?"  
And he said, "No; but as the captain of the host of the LORD, I have now come." And Joshua fell on his face to the earth and worshiped, and said to him, "What does my Lord say to His servant?"  
And the captain of the LORD's host said to Joshua, "Take off your sandal from your foot, for the place where you stand is holy." And Joshua did so.