We have heard with our ears, O God; our ancestors have told us of the works you performed in their days, in ancient times.  
How you drove out the nations with your hand and planted them; how you afflicted the peoples and cast them out.  
For they did not gain possession of the land by their own sword, nor did their own arm save them; but it was your right hand, your arm, and the light of your presence, because you favored them.  
You are my King, O God; command victories for Jacob.  
Through you, we will push down our enemies; through your name, we will trample those who rise against us.  
For I will not trust in my bow, nor shall my sword save me.  
But you have saved us from our enemies and have put to shame those who hated us.  
In God, we boast all day long and praise your name forever. Selah.  
But you have rejected us and put us to shame; you do not go out with our armies.  
You make us turn back from the enemy, and those who hate us plunder for themselves.  
You have given us like sheep to be slaughtered and have scattered us among the nations.  
You sell your people for nothing and do not increase your wealth by their price.  
You make us a reproach to our neighbors, a scorn and derision to those around us.  
You make us a byword among the nations, a shaking of the head among the peoples.  
My confusion is constantly before me, and the shame of my face covers me,  
Because of the voice of the one who reproaches and blasphemes, because of the enemy and the avenger.  
All this has come upon us; yet we have not forgotten you, nor have we been false to your covenant.  
Our heart has not turned back, nor have our steps declined from your way;  
Though you have crushed us in the place of jackals and covered us with the shadow of death.  
If we have forgotten the name of our God or stretched out our hands to a foreign god,  
Will not God search this out? For he knows the secrets of the heart.  
Yes, for your sake, we are killed all day long; we are counted as sheep for the slaughter.  
Awake! Why do you sleep, O Lord? Arise; do not cast us off forever.  
Why do you hide your face and forget our affliction and oppression?  
For our soul is bowed down to the dust; our belly clings to the earth.  
Arise for our help and redeem us for the sake of your steadfast love.