Moreover, you shall construct the tabernacle with ten curtains made of fine twisted linen, along with blue, purple, and scarlet threads; with cherubim intricately designed, you shall create them.  
The length of each curtain shall be twenty-eight cubits, and the width of each curtain shall be four cubits; all the curtains shall have the same dimensions.  
The five curtains shall be joined together, one to another, and the other five curtains shall also be joined together.  
You shall make loops of blue on the edge of the first curtain at the selvedge in the coupling, and likewise, you shall make loops on the outer edge of the other curtain in the coupling of the second set.  
You shall create fifty loops in the first curtain, and fifty loops in the edge of the curtain that is in the coupling of the second set, so that the loops may interlock with one another.  
You shall make fifty clasps of gold and join the curtains together with the clasps, so that it shall be one tabernacle.  
You shall make curtains of goats' hair to serve as a covering for the tabernacle; you shall make eleven curtains.  
The length of each curtain shall be thirty cubits, and the width of each curtain shall be four cubits; all eleven curtains shall be of the same dimensions.  
You shall couple five curtains together separately and six curtains together separately, and you shall double the sixth curtain at the front of the tabernacle.  
You shall make fifty loops on the edge of the outermost curtain in the coupling, and fifty loops on the edge of the curtain that couples with the second set.  
You shall make fifty clasps of bronze and insert the clasps into the loops to join the tent together, so that it may be one.  
The remainder of the curtains of the tent, the half curtain that remains, shall hang over the back side of the tabernacle.  
One cubit on one side and one cubit on the other side of what remains in the length of the curtains of the tent shall hang over the sides of the tabernacle on both sides to provide coverage.  
You shall make a covering for the tent of rams' skins dyed red, and a covering above it of badger skins.  
You shall make boards for the tabernacle of acacia wood, standing upright.  
Each board shall be ten cubits in length and one and a half cubits in width.  
There shall be two tenons on each board, set in order opposite one another; thus, you shall make for all the boards of the tabernacle.  
You shall make twenty boards for the south side of the tabernacle.  
You shall make forty sockets of silver under the twenty boards; two sockets under one board for its two tenons, and two sockets under another board for its two tenons.  
For the second side of the tabernacle, on the north side, there shall also be twenty boards.  
And there shall be forty sockets of silver; two sockets under one board and two sockets under another board.  
For the west side of the tabernacle, you shall make six boards.  
And you shall make two boards for the corners of the tabernacle on the two sides.  
They shall be coupled together at the bottom and coupled together at the top with one ring; thus, it shall be for both corners.  
There shall be eight boards, and their sockets of silver shall be sixteen sockets; two sockets under one board and two sockets under another board.  
You shall make bars of acacia wood; five for the boards on one side of the tabernacle,  
And five bars for the boards on the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards on the west side of the tabernacle.  
The middle bar, in the midst of the boards, shall extend from end to end.  
You shall overlay the boards with gold and make their rings of gold for the bars; and you shall overlay the bars with gold.  
You shall erect the tabernacle according to the pattern shown to you on the mountain.  
You shall make a veil of blue, purple, and scarlet, and fine twisted linen, with intricate designs; it shall be made with cherubim.  
You shall hang it on four pillars of acacia wood overlaid with gold; their hooks shall be of gold, upon four sockets of silver.  
You shall hang the veil under the clasps, so that you may bring in there within the veil the ark of the testimony; the veil shall separate for you the holy place from the most holy place.  
You shall place the mercy seat upon the ark of the testimony in the most holy place.  
You shall set the table outside the veil, and the lampstand opposite the table on the side of the tabernacle toward the south; and you shall place the table on the north side.  
You shall make a hanging for the door of the tent, of blue, purple, and scarlet, and fine twisted linen, crafted with needlework.  
You shall make for the hanging five pillars of acacia wood, overlay them with gold, and their hooks shall be of gold; and you shall cast five sockets of bronze for them.