Now, of the things we have discussed, this is the conclusion: We have such a high priest, who is seated at the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in the heavens;  
A minister of the sanctuary and of the true tabernacle, which the Lord erected, not man.  
For every high priest is appointed to offer gifts and sacrifices; therefore, it is necessary that this man also has something to offer.  
For if he were on earth, he would not be a priest, since there are priests who offer gifts according to the law;  
Who serve as an example and shadow of heavenly things, as Moses was instructed by God when he was about to construct the tabernacle; for He said, "See that you make all things according to the pattern shown to you on the mountain."  
But now he has obtained a more excellent ministry, by how much he is also the mediator of a better covenant, which was established on better promises.  
For if that first covenant had been faultless, then no place would have been sought for the second.  
For finding fault with them, he says, "Behold, the days are coming, says the Lord, when I will establish a new covenant with the house of Israel and the house of Judah;  
Not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers on the day when I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt; because they did not continue in my covenant, and I disregarded them, says the Lord.  
For this is the covenant that I will establish with the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord; I will put my laws into their minds and write them on their hearts; and I will be their God, and they shall be my people.  
And they shall not teach every man his neighbor, and every man his brother, saying, "Know the Lord," for all shall know me, from the least to the greatest.  
For I will be merciful to their unrighteousness, and their sins and their iniquities I will remember no more.  
In that he says, "A new covenant," he has made the first obsolete. Now what is becoming obsolete and growing old is ready to vanish away.