Then indeed, the first covenant also had regulations for divine service and an earthly sanctuary.  
For there was a tabernacle constructed; the first, which contained the candlestick, the table, and the showbread; this is referred to as the sanctuary.  
And beyond the second veil was the tabernacle known as the Holiest of all;  
Which contained the golden censer and the ark of the covenant, covered all around with gold, in which was the golden pot that held manna, Aaron's rod that budded, and the tablets of the covenant;  
And above it were the cherubim of glory overshadowing the mercy seat; concerning which we cannot now speak in detail.  
Now when these things were thus arranged, the priests continually entered the first tabernacle to perform their duties to God.  
But into the second, the high priest went alone once a year, not without blood, which he offered for himself and for the sins of the people;  
The Holy Spirit indicating this, that the way into the Holiest of all was not yet revealed while the first tabernacle was still standing;  
Which was a symbol for the present time, during which gifts and sacrifices were offered that could not make the one performing the service perfect in regard to the conscience;  
Which consisted only of food and drink, various washings, and fleshly ordinances imposed until the time of reformation.  
But Christ, having come as a high priest of good things to come, through a greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is, not of this creation;  
Not with the blood of goats and calves, but with His own blood He entered the Most Holy Place once for all, having obtained eternal redemption for us.  
For if the blood of bulls and goats, and the ashes of a heifer sprinkling the unclean, sanctifies for the purifying of the flesh:  
How much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered Himself without blemish to God, cleanse your conscience from dead works to serve the living God?  
And for this reason, He is the mediator of the new covenant, that by means of death, for the redemption of the transgressions under the first covenant, those who are called may receive the promise of eternal inheritance.  
For where there is a covenant, there must also of necessity be the death of the one who made it.  
For a covenant is enforced only after men are dead; it is of no strength at all while the one who made it is alive.  
Therefore, neither was the first covenant dedicated without blood.  
For when Moses had spoken every commandment to all the people according to the law, he took the blood of calves and goats, with water, scarlet wool, and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book and all the people,  
Saying, "This is the blood of the covenant which God has commanded you."  
Moreover, he sprinkled with blood both the tabernacle and all the vessels of the ministry.  
And almost all things are purified with blood according to the law, and without the shedding of blood, there is no remission.  
It was therefore necessary that the copies of the things in the heavens should be purified with these; but the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these.  
For Christ did not enter the holy places made with hands, which are copies of the true; but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God for us;  
Nor did He enter that He should offer Himself often, as the high priest enters the Most Holy Place every year with the blood of others;  
For then He would have had to suffer often since the foundation of the world; but now, once at the end of the ages, He has appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of Himself.  
And as it is appointed for men to die once, but after this the judgment:  
So Christ was offered once to bear the sins of many; and to those who eagerly await Him, He will appear a second time, apart from sin, for salvation.