Then Pilate took Jesus and had him scourged.  
The soldiers wove a crown of thorns, placed it on his head, and draped a purple robe around him.  
They mocked him, saying, "Hail, King of the Jews!" and struck him with their hands.  
Pilate went out again and said to them, "Behold, I bring him out to you so that you may know that I find no fault in him."  
Jesus came out wearing the crown of thorns and the purple robe. Pilate said to them, "Behold the man!"  
When the chief priests and officers saw him, they shouted, "Crucify him, crucify him!" Pilate replied, "Take him and crucify him, for I find no fault in him."  
The Jews answered him, "We have a law, and by that law, he ought to die because he made himself the Son of God."  
When Pilate heard this, he became even more afraid.  
He went back into the judgment hall and asked Jesus, "Where are you from?" But Jesus gave him no answer.  
Pilate said to him, "Are you not speaking to me? Do you not know that I have the power to crucify you and the power to release you?"  
Jesus answered, "You would have no power over me at all unless it had been given to you from above; therefore, the one who delivered me to you has the greater sin."  
From that point on, Pilate sought to release him, but the Jews cried out, "If you let this man go, you are not Caesar's friend; anyone who claims to be a king opposes Caesar."  
When Pilate heard this, he brought Jesus out and sat down on the judgment seat at a place called the Pavement, which in Hebrew is Gabbatha.  
It was the preparation for the Passover, and about the sixth hour, he said to the Jews, "Behold your King!"  
But they shouted, "Away with him, away with him, crucify him!" Pilate asked, "Shall I crucify your King?" The chief priests answered, "We have no king but Caesar."  
So he delivered him to them to be crucified. They took Jesus and led him away.  
Carrying his cross, he went to a place called the Place of a Skull, which is called in Hebrew Golgotha.  
There they crucified him, and with him two others, one on either side, with Jesus in the middle.  
Pilate wrote a title and put it on the cross. The writing read, "JESUS OF NAZARETH, THE KING OF THE JEWS."  
Many of the Jews read this title, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city, and it was written in Hebrew, Greek, and Latin.  
The chief priests of the Jews said to Pilate, "Do not write, 'The King of the Jews,' but that he said, 'I am King of the Jews.'"  
Pilate answered, "What I have written, I have written."  
After the soldiers had crucified Jesus, they took his garments and made four parts, to each soldier a part, and also his coat, which was seamless, woven from the top throughout.  
They said to one another, "Let us not tear it, but cast lots for it, to see whose it shall be," so that the scripture might be fulfilled, which says, "They divided my garments among them, and for my clothing, they cast lots." Therefore, the soldiers did these things.  
Standing by the cross of Jesus were his mother, his mother's sister, Mary the wife of Cleophas, and Mary Magdalene.  
When Jesus saw his mother and the disciple whom he loved standing nearby, he said to his mother, "Woman, behold your son!"  
Then he said to the disciple, "Behold your mother!" From that hour, the disciple took her into his own home.  
After this, knowing that all things were now accomplished, and to fulfill the scripture, Jesus said, "I thirst."  
A vessel full of vinegar was set there; they filled a sponge with vinegar, put it on hyssop, and held it to his mouth.  
When Jesus had received the vinegar, he said, "It is finished!" and bowed his head, giving up his spirit.  
The Jews, because it was the preparation, did not want the bodies to remain on the cross on the Sabbath (for that Sabbath was a high day), and they asked Pilate to have their legs broken and the bodies taken away.  
The soldiers came and broke the legs of the first and the other who was crucified with him.  
But when they came to Jesus and saw that he was already dead, they did not break his legs.  
However, one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and immediately blood and water came out.  
He who saw it has borne witness, and his testimony is true; he knows that he tells the truth so that you may believe.  
These things were done to fulfill the scripture, "Not one of his bones shall be broken."  
And again, another scripture says, "They shall look on him whom they pierced."  
After this, Joseph of Arimathaea, a secret disciple of Jesus for fear of the Jews, asked Pilate if he could take away the body of Jesus, and Pilate granted him permission. He came and took the body of Jesus.  
Nicodemus also came, who had first visited Jesus by night, bringing a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about a hundred pounds in weight.  
They took the body of Jesus and wrapped it in linen cloths with the spices, as is the custom of the Jews for burial.  
Now in the place where he was crucified, there was a garden, and in the garden, a new tomb where no one had yet been laid.  
They laid Jesus there because of the Jews' preparation day, for the tomb was nearby.