Oh, that my head were like waters, and my eyes a fountain of tears, so that I might weep day and night for the slain of the daughter of my people!  
Oh, that I had a lodging place in the wilderness for wayfaring men; that I might leave my people and go from them! For they are all adulterers, an assembly of treacherous men.  
They bend their tongues like bows for lies; they are not valiant for the truth upon the earth; they proceed from evil to evil, and they do not know me, says the LORD.  
Let everyone take heed of his neighbor, and do not trust in any brother; for every brother will utterly supplant, and every neighbor will walk with slanders.  
They deceive everyone his neighbor and do not speak the truth; they have taught their tongues to speak lies and weary themselves to commit iniquity.  
Your habitation is in the midst of deceit; through deceit they refuse to know me, says the LORD.  
Therefore, thus says the LORD of hosts: Behold, I will melt them and test them; for how shall I deal with the daughter of my people?  
Their tongues are like arrows shot out; they speak deceit: one speaks peaceably to his neighbor with his mouth, but in his heart he lays a trap.  
Shall I not visit them for these things? says the LORD; shall not my soul be avenged on such a nation as this?  
For the mountains, I will take up a weeping and wailing, and for the habitations of the wilderness a lamentation, because they are burned up, so that none can pass through them; neither can men hear the voice of the cattle; both the birds of the heavens and the beasts have fled; they are gone.  
And I will make Jerusalem heaps, a den of dragons; and I will make the cities of Judah desolate, without an inhabitant.  
Who is the wise man that may understand this? And who is he to whom the mouth of the LORD has spoken, that he may declare it? For why does the land perish and burn up like a wilderness, so that none passes through?  
And the LORD says, Because they have forsaken my law which I set before them, and have not obeyed my voice, nor walked in it;  
But have walked after the imagination of their own hearts and after Baalim, which their fathers taught them:  
Therefore, thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I will feed them, even this people, with wormwood, and give them water of gall to drink.  
I will scatter them also among the nations, whom neither they nor their fathers have known; and I will send a sword after them until I have consumed them.  
Thus says the LORD of hosts: Consider and call for the mourning women, that they may come; and send for the skillful women, that they may come:  
And let them make haste and take up a wailing for us, that our eyes may run down with tears, and our eyelids gush out with waters.  
For a voice of wailing is heard out of Zion: How are we spoiled! We are greatly confounded because we have forsaken the land; our dwellings have cast us out.  
Yet hear the word of the LORD, O women, and let your ears receive the word of his mouth; teach your daughters wailing, and everyone her neighbor lamentation.  
For death has come up into our windows and has entered our palaces, to cut off the children from outside and the young men from the streets.  
Speak: Thus says the LORD, Even the carcasses of men shall fall as dung upon the open field, and as the handful after the harvestman, and none shall gather them.  
Thus says the LORD: Let not the wise man glory in his wisdom, nor let the mighty man glory in his might; let not the rich man glory in his riches:  
But let him who glories glory in this, that he understands and knows me, that I am the LORD who exercises lovingkindness, judgment, and righteousness in the earth; for in these things I delight, says the LORD.  
Behold, the days come, says the LORD, that I will punish all those who are circumcised with the uncircumcised;  
Egypt, Judah, Edom, the children of Ammon, Moab, and all that are in the utmost corners, that dwell in the wilderness; for all these nations are uncircumcised, and all the house of Israel is uncircumcised in heart.