And he also said to his disciples, "There was a certain rich man who had a steward, and he was accused of wasting his goods."  
He called the steward and asked him, "How is it that I hear this about you? Give an account of your stewardship, for you can no longer be steward."  
Then the steward said to himself, "What shall I do? My lord is taking away my stewardship; I cannot dig, and I am ashamed to beg."  
"I have resolved what to do, so that when I am removed from my stewardship, they may welcome me into their homes."  
So he called each of his lord's debtors to him and asked the first, "How much do you owe my lord?"  
The debtor replied, "A hundred measures of oil." The steward said to him, "Take your bill, sit down quickly, and write fifty."  
Then he asked another, "And how much do you owe?" The man answered, "A hundred measures of wheat." The steward said, "Take your bill and write eighty."  
And the lord commended the unjust steward because he had acted wisely; for the children of this world are, in their generation, wiser than the children of light.  
And I say to you, "Make friends for yourselves with the mammon of unrighteousness, so that when you fail, they may receive you into everlasting habitations."  
He who is faithful in what is least is faithful also in much; and he who is unjust in the least is unjust also in much.  
If therefore you have not been faithful in the unrighteous mammon, who will commit to your trust the true riches?  
And if you have not been faithful in what belongs to another man, who will give you what is your own?  
No servant can serve two masters; for either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and mammon.  
And the Pharisees, who were covetous, heard all these things and derided him.  
He said to them, "You are those who justify yourselves before men, but God knows your hearts; for what is highly esteemed among men is an abomination in the sight of God."  
The law and the prophets were until John; since that time the kingdom of God is preached, and everyone is pressing into it.  
And it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away than for one tittle of the law to fail.  
Whoever puts away his wife and marries another commits adultery; and whoever marries her who is put away from her husband commits adultery.  
There was a certain rich man who was clothed in purple and fine linen and feasted sumptuously every day.  
And there was a certain beggar named Lazarus, who was laid at his gate, full of sores,  
Desiring to be fed with the crumbs that fell from the rich man's table; moreover, the dogs came and licked his sores.  
It came to pass that the beggar died and was carried by the angels to Abraham's bosom; the rich man also died and was buried.  
In hell, he lifted up his eyes, being in torments, and saw Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom.  
He cried out and said, "Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus, that he may dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue; for I am tormented in this flame."  
But Abraham said, "Son, remember that in your lifetime you received good things, and likewise Lazarus evil things; but now he is comforted, and you are tormented."  
And besides all this, between us and you there is a great gulf fixed, so that those who would pass from here to you cannot; nor can they pass to us, who would come from there."  
Then he said, "I beg you, therefore, father, that you would send him to my father's house;  
For I have five brothers; let him testify to them, lest they also come to this place of torment."  
Abraham said to him, "They have Moses and the prophets; let them hear them."  
He replied, "No, father Abraham; but if one goes to them from the dead, they will repent."  
Abraham said to him, "If they do not hear Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded, though one rises from the dead."