Surely there is a vein for silver, and a place for gold where it is refined.  
Iron is extracted from the earth, and brass is smelted from stone.  
He brings an end to darkness and searches out all perfection: the stones of darkness and the shadow of death.  
The flood breaks out from the inhabitant; even the waters forgotten by the foot: they are dried up, they have vanished from men.  
As for the earth, from it comes bread: and beneath it is turned up as if it were fire.  
Its stones are the place of sapphires, and it has dust of gold.  
There is a path that no bird knows, and the vulture's eye has not seen it:  
The lion's cubs have not trodden it, nor has the fierce lion passed by it.  
He puts forth his hand upon the rock; he overturns the mountains by their roots.  
He carves out rivers among the rocks; and his eye sees every precious thing.  
He restrains the floods from overflowing; and the hidden things he brings to light.  
But where can wisdom be found? And where is the place of understanding?  
Man does not know its price; neither is it found in the land of the living.  
The deep says, "It is not in me," and the sea says, "It is not with me."  
It cannot be obtained for gold, nor can silver be weighed for its price.  
It cannot be valued with the gold of Ophir, with the precious onyx, or the sapphire.  
Gold and crystal cannot compare to it; nor can it be exchanged for jewels of fine gold.  
No mention shall be made of coral or pearls; for the price of wisdom is above rubies.  
The topaz of Ethiopia cannot compare to it, nor can it be valued with pure gold.  
From where then does wisdom come? And where is the place of understanding?  
Seeing it is hidden from the eyes of all living, and kept close from the birds of the air.  
Destruction and death say, "We have heard its fame with our ears."  
God understands its way, and He knows its place.  
For He looks to the ends of the earth and sees under the whole heaven;  
To establish the weight for the winds; and He measures the waters.  
When He made a decree for the rain and a path for the lightning of the thunder:  
Then He saw it and declared it; He prepared it, yes, and searched it out.  
And to man He said, "Behold, the fear of the LORD, that is wisdom; and to depart from evil is understanding."