And it came to pass, when Jesus had finished commanding his twelve disciples, he departed to teach and preach in their cities.  
Now when John heard in prison about the works of Christ, he sent two of his disciples,  
And said to him, Are you the one who is to come, or should we expect another?  
Jesus answered and said to them, Go and tell John what you hear and see:  
The blind receive their sight, the lame walk, lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, and the poor have the gospel preached to them.  
And blessed is he who is not offended by me.  
As they departed, Jesus began to speak to the crowds about John, What did you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken by the wind?  
But what did you go out to see? A man dressed in soft clothing? Look, those who wear soft clothing are in kings' houses.  
But what did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you, and more than a prophet.  
For this is he of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before you.  
Truly I say to you, among those born of women, there has not risen anyone greater than John the Baptist; yet he who is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he.  
And from the days of John the Baptist until now, the kingdom of heaven suffers violence, and the violent take it by force.  
For all the prophets and the law prophesied until John.  
And if you are willing to accept it, he is Elijah who was to come.  
He who has ears to hear, let him hear.  
But to what shall I compare this generation? It is like children sitting in the marketplaces and calling to their companions,  
And saying, We played the flute for you, and you did not dance; we mourned for you, and you did not lament.  
For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, He has a demon.  
The Son of Man came eating and drinking, and they say, Look, a glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners. But wisdom is justified by her children.  
Then he began to denounce the cities where most of his mighty works were done, because they did not repent:  
Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the mighty works done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes.  
But I say to you, it will be more bearable for Tyre and Sidon on the day of judgment than for you.  
And you, Capernaum, will you be exalted to heaven? You will be brought down to Hades; for if the mighty works done in you had been done in Sodom, it would have remained until this day.  
But I say to you, it will be more bearable for the land of Sodom on the day of judgment than for you.  
At that time, Jesus answered and said, I thank you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because you have hidden these things from the wise and understanding and revealed them to little children.  
Yes, Father, for such was your gracious will.  
All things have been handed over to me by my Father, and no one knows the Son except the Father, and no one knows the Father except the Son and anyone to whom the Son chooses to reveal him.  
Come to me, all you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.  
Take my yoke upon you, and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls.  
For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.