The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD, after Nebuzaradan, the captain of the guard, had released him from Ramah, where he had been bound in chains among all those taken captive from Jerusalem and Judah, who were carried away to Babylon.  
And the captain of the guard took Jeremiah and said to him, "The LORD your God has pronounced this disaster upon this place."  
Now the LORD has brought it about and done as He said: because you have sinned against the LORD and have not obeyed His voice, therefore this calamity has come upon you.  
And now, behold, I release you today from the chains that were on your hands. If it seems good to you to come with me to Babylon, come, and I will take care of you; but if it seems wrong to you to come with me to Babylon, then refrain: behold, all the land is before you; wherever it seems good and right for you to go, go there.  
Now while he was not yet gone back, he said, "Go back also to Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, whom the king of Babylon has made governor over the cities of Judah, and dwell with him among the people; or go wherever it seems convenient for you to go." So the captain of the guard gave him provisions and a reward and let him go.  
Then Jeremiah went to Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam, at Mizpah and dwelt with him among the people who were left in the land.  
Now when all the captains of the forces that were in the fields, along with their men, heard that the king of Babylon had made Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam, governor in the land and had committed to him men, women, children, and the poor of the land, those who had not been carried away to Babylon;  
Then they came to Gedaliah at Mizpah, including Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah, Johanan and Jonathan, the sons of Kareah, Seraiah, the son of Tanhumeth, the sons of Ephai the Netophathite, and Jezaniah, the son of a Maachathite, along with their men.  
And Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, swore to them and their men, saying, "Do not be afraid to serve the Chaldeans; dwell in the land and serve the king of Babylon, and it shall be well with you."  
As for me, behold, I will dwell at Mizpah to serve the Chaldeans who will come to us; but you, gather wine, summer fruits, and oil, and put them in your vessels, and dwell in the cities that you have taken.  
Likewise, when all the Jews who were in Moab, among the Ammonites, in Edom, and in all the countries heard that the king of Babylon had left a remnant of Judah and had set over them Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan;  
All the Jews returned from all the places where they had been driven and came to the land of Judah, to Gedaliah at Mizpah, and gathered an abundance of wine and summer fruits.  
Moreover, Johanan, the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the forces that were in the fields came to Gedaliah at Mizpah,  
And said to him, "Do you certainly know that Baalis, the king of the Ammonites, has sent Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah, to kill you?" But Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam, did not believe them.  
Then Johanan, the son of Kareah, spoke to Gedaliah in Mizpah secretly, saying, "Let me go, I pray you, and I will kill Ishmael, the son of Nethaniah, and no one will know it. Why should he kill you, so that all the Jews who are gathered to you would be scattered, and the remnant in Judah perish?"  
But Gedaliah, the son of Ahikam, said to Johanan, the son of Kareah, "You shall not do this thing, for you speak falsely concerning Ishmael."