I charge you, therefore, before God and the Lord Jesus Christ, who will judge the living and the dead at His appearing and His kingdom:  
Preach the word; be ready in season and out of season; reprove, rebuke, and exhort with all patience and teaching.  
For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine; but according to their own desires, they will gather for themselves teachers, having itching ears.  
And they will turn away their ears from the truth and be turned aside to myths.  
But you, be watchful in all things, endure afflictions, do the work of an evangelist, fulfill your ministry.  
For I am now ready to be poured out as a drink offering, and the time of my departure is at hand.  
I have fought the good fight, I have finished the race, I have kept the faith.  
Finally, there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, will give to me on that day; and not to me only, but also to all who have loved His appearing.  
Do your best to come to me quickly.  
For Demas has forsaken me, having loved this present world, and has departed for Thessalonica; Crescens for Galatia, Titus for Dalmatia.  
Only Luke is with me. Get Mark and bring him with you, for he is useful to me for ministry.  
And I have sent Tychicus to Ephesus.  
The cloak that I left at Troas with Carpus, when you come, bring with you, and the books, especially the parchments.  
Alexander the coppersmith did me much harm; may the Lord repay him according to his works.  
Beware of him also, for he has greatly resisted our words.  
At my first defense, no one stood with me, but all forsook me. I pray God that it may not be charged against them.  
Nevertheless, the Lord stood with me and strengthened me, so that the message might be fully proclaimed and all the Gentiles might hear it; and I was delivered out of the mouth of the lion.  
And the Lord will deliver me from every evil work and will preserve me for His heavenly kingdom; to Him be glory forever and ever. Amen.  
Greet Prisca and Aquila, and the household of Onesiphorus.  
Erastus stayed in Corinth, but Trophimus I have left in Miletus sick.  
Do your best to come before winter. Eubulus greets you, as do Pudens, Linus, Claudia, and all the brethren.  
The Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Grace be with you. Amen.