Observe the month of Abib and keep the Passover to the LORD your God, for in the month of Abib, the LORD your God brought you out of Egypt by night.  
You shall therefore sacrifice the Passover to the LORD your God from the flock and the herd, in the place that the LORD will choose to establish His name.  
You shall eat no leavened bread with it; for seven days you shall eat unleavened bread, the bread of affliction, because you came out of the land of Egypt in haste. This is so that you may remember the day you left the land of Egypt all the days of your life.  
There shall be no leavened bread seen with you in all your territory for seven days, nor shall anything of the flesh that you sacrificed on the first day remain until morning.  
You may not sacrifice the Passover within any of your gates that the LORD your God gives you.  
But at the place that the LORD your God will choose to establish His name, there you shall sacrifice the Passover at evening, at sunset, during the season you came out of Egypt.  
You shall roast and eat it in the place that the LORD your God will choose, and in the morning, you shall return to your tents.  
For six days you shall eat unleavened bread, and on the seventh day, there shall be a solemn assembly to the LORD your God; you shall do no work on that day.  
You shall count seven weeks for yourself; begin counting the seven weeks from the time you first put the sickle to the grain.  
And you shall keep the Feast of Weeks to the LORD your God with a tribute of a freewill offering from your hand, which you shall give to the LORD your God, according to how the LORD your God has blessed you.  
And you shall rejoice before the LORD your God, you, your son, your daughter, your male and female servants, the Levite within your gates, the stranger, the fatherless, and the widow among you, in the place that the LORD your God has chosen to establish His name.  
And you shall remember that you were a bondman in Egypt, and you shall observe and do these statutes.  
You shall observe the Feast of Tabernacles for seven days after you have gathered in your grain and your wine.  
And you shall rejoice in your feast, you, your son, your daughter, your male and female servants, the Levite, the stranger, the fatherless, and the widow within your gates.  
For seven days, you shall keep a solemn feast to the LORD your God in the place that the LORD will choose, because the LORD your God will bless you in all your harvest and in all the work of your hands; therefore, you shall surely rejoice.  
Three times a year, all your males shall appear before the LORD your God in the place He will choose: at the Feast of Unleavened Bread, the Feast of Weeks, and the Feast of Tabernacles; and they shall not appear before the LORD empty-handed.  
Every man shall give as he is able, according to the blessing of the LORD your God that He has given you.  
You shall appoint judges and officers in all your gates that the LORD your God gives you throughout your tribes, and they shall judge the people with just judgment.  
You shall not pervert justice; you shall not show partiality, nor take a bribe, for a bribe blinds the eyes of the wise and twists the words of the righteous.  
You shall follow what is altogether just, so that you may live and inherit the land that the LORD your God is giving you.  
You shall not plant a grove of any trees near the altar of the LORD your God that you will make.  
Nor shall you set up any image, for the LORD your God detests it.