And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, "Go to Pharaoh and tell him, 'Thus says the LORD: Let my people go, so that they may serve me.'"
And if you refuse to let them go, behold, I will strike all your borders with frogs.
The river will bring forth frogs abundantly, which will enter your house, your bedroom, your bed, the houses of your servants, your people, your ovens, and your kneading troughs.
The frogs will come up on you, your people, and all your servants.
And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, "Tell Aaron to stretch out his hand with his rod over the streams, rivers, and ponds, and cause frogs to come up upon the land of Egypt."
Aaron stretched out his hand over the waters of Egypt, and the frogs came up and covered the land.
The magicians did the same with their enchantments, bringing frogs upon the land of Egypt.
Then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron, saying, "Entreat the LORD to take away the frogs from me and my people; then I will let the people go to sacrifice to the LORD."
Moses said to Pharaoh, "Glory over me: when shall I entreat for you, your servants, and your people, to remove the frogs from you and your houses, so that they remain only in the river?"
He said, "Tomorrow." Moses replied, "It shall be as you have said, so that you may know that there is none like the LORD our God."
The frogs will depart from you, your houses, your servants, and your people; they will remain only in the river.
Moses and Aaron went out from Pharaoh, and Moses cried out to the LORD because of the frogs He had brought upon Pharaoh.
The LORD did as Moses said; the frogs died out of the houses, villages, and fields.
They gathered them together in heaps, and the land stank.
But when Pharaoh saw that there was relief, he hardened his heart and did not listen to them, as the LORD had said.
The LORD said to Moses, "Tell Aaron to stretch out his rod and strike the dust of the land, so that it may become lice throughout all the land of Egypt."
They did so; Aaron stretched out his hand with his rod and struck the dust of the earth, and it became lice on man and beast; all the dust of the land became lice throughout Egypt.
The magicians tried to bring forth lice with their enchantments, but they could not; so there were lice on man and beast.
Then the magicians said to Pharaoh, "This is the finger of God." But Pharaoh's heart was hardened, and he did not listen to them, as the LORD had said.
The LORD said to Moses, "Rise early in the morning and stand before Pharaoh; he is coming out to the water. Say to him, 'Thus says the LORD: Let my people go, so that they may serve me.'"
If you refuse to let my people go, behold, I will send swarms of flies upon you, your servants, your people, and into your houses; the houses of the Egyptians will be full of swarms of flies, and the ground will be covered with them.
I will set apart the land of Goshen, where my people dwell, so that no swarms of flies will be there; this will show you that I am the LORD in the midst of the earth.
I will put a division between my people and your people; tomorrow this sign will occur.
The LORD did so, and a grievous swarm of flies came into the house of Pharaoh, into the houses of his servants, and throughout all the land of Egypt; the land was corrupted because of the swarm of flies.
Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron, saying, "Go and sacrifice to your God in the land."
Moses replied, "It is not right to do so; for we will sacrifice the abomination of the Egyptians to the LORD our God. If we sacrifice the abomination of the Egyptians before their eyes, will they not stone us?"
We will go three days' journey into the wilderness and sacrifice to the LORD our God, as He commands us.
Pharaoh said, "I will let you go to sacrifice to the LORD your God in the wilderness; only do not go very far away. Entreat for me."
Moses said, "Behold, I will go out from you and entreat the LORD that the swarms of flies may depart from Pharaoh, his servants, and his people tomorrow; but let not Pharaoh deal deceitfully any more by not letting the people go to sacrifice to the LORD."
Moses went out from Pharaoh and entreated the LORD.
The LORD did as Moses said; He removed the swarms of flies from Pharaoh, his servants, and his people; not one remained.
Pharaoh hardened his heart at this time as well, and he would not let the people go.