Now these are the generations of Esau, who is Edom.
Esau took his wives from the daughters of Canaan: Adah the daughter of Elon the Hittite, and Aholibamah the daughter of Anah, the daughter of Zibeon the Hivite;
And Bashemath, Ishmael's daughter, sister of Nebajoth.
And Adah bore to Esau Eliphaz; and Bashemath bore Reuel;
And Aholibamah bore Jeush, Jaalam, and Korah: these are the sons of Esau, born to him in the land of Canaan.
And Esau took his wives, his sons, his daughters, and all the members of his household, along with his cattle, and all his livestock, and all his possessions, which he had acquired in the land of Canaan; and went into the region away from his brother Jacob.
For their wealth was too great for them to dwell together; and the land where they were residing could not support them because of their livestock.
Thus Esau dwelt in Mount Seir: Esau is Edom.
And these are the generations of Esau, the father of the Edomites in Mount Seir:
These are the names of Esau's sons: Eliphaz, the son of Adah, the wife of Esau, and Reuel, the son of Bashemath, the wife of Esau.
And the sons of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zepho, Gatam, and Kenaz.
And Timna was a concubine to Eliphaz, Esau's son; and she bore to Eliphaz Amalek: these were the sons of Adah, Esau's wife.
And these are the sons of Reuel: Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah: these were the sons of Bashemath, Esau's wife.
And these were the sons of Aholibamah, the daughter of Anah, the daughter of Zibeon, Esau's wife: and she bore to Esau Jeush, Jaalam, and Korah.
These were dukes among the sons of Esau: the sons of Eliphaz, the firstborn son of Esau; duke Teman, duke Omar, duke Zepho, duke Kenaz,
Duke Korah, duke Gatam, and duke Amalek: these are the dukes that descended from Eliphaz in the land of Edom; these were the sons of Adah.
And these are the sons of Reuel, Esau's son; duke Nahath, duke Zerah, duke Shammah, duke Mizzah: these are the dukes that descended from Reuel in the land of Edom; these are the sons of Bashemath, Esau's wife.
And these are the sons of Aholibamah, Esau's wife; duke Jeush, duke Jaalam, duke Korah: these were the dukes that descended from Aholibamah, the daughter of Anah, Esau's wife.
These are the sons of Esau, who is Edom, and these are their dukes.
These are the sons of Seir the Horite, who inhabited the land: Lotan, Shobal, Zibeon, Anah,
And Dishon, Ezer, and Dishan: these are the dukes of the Horites, the children of Seir in the land of Edom.
And the children of Lotan were Hori and Hemam; and Lotan's sister was Timna.
And the children of Shobal were these: Alvan, Manahath, Ebal, Shepho, and Onam.
And these are the children of Zibeon: both Ajah and Anah: this was that Anah who found the mules in the wilderness, as he fed the donkeys of Zibeon, his father.
And the children of Anah were these: Dishon, and Aholibamah, the daughter of Anah.
And these are the children of Dishon: Hemdan, Eshban, Ithran, and Cheran.
The children of Ezer are these: Bilhan, Zaavan, and Akan.
The children of Dishan are these: Uz and Aran.
These are the dukes that descended from the Horites: duke Lotan, duke Shobal, duke Zibeon, duke Anah,
Duke Dishon, duke Ezer, duke Dishan: these are the dukes that came from Hori, among their dukes in the land of Seir.
And these are the kings that reigned in the land of Edom, before any king reigned over the children of Israel.
And Bela, the son of Beor, reigned in Edom: and the name of his city was Dinhabah.
And Bela died, and Jobab, the son of Zerah of Bozrah, reigned in his place.
And Jobab died, and Husham of the land of Temani reigned in his place.
And Husham died, and Hadad, the son of Bedad, who struck Midian in the field of Moab, reigned in his place: and the name of his city was Avith.
And Hadad died, and Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his place.
And Samlah died, and Saul of Rehoboth by the river reigned in his place.
And Saul died, and Baalhanan, the son of Achbor, reigned in his place.
And Baalhanan, the son of Achbor, died, and Hadar reigned in his place: and the name of his city was Pau; and his wife's name was Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab.
And these are the names of the dukes that descended from Esau, according to their families, by their places, and by their names: duke Timnah, duke Alvah, duke Jetheth,
Duke Aholibamah, duke Elah, duke Pinon,
Duke Kenaz, duke Teman, duke Mibzar,
Duke Magdiel, duke Iram: these are the dukes of Edom, according to their habitations in the land of their possession: he is Esau, the father of the Edomites.
