And Jacob called to his sons, saying, "Gather yourselves together, that I may tell you what will happen to you in the last days."  
"Come together and listen, you sons of Jacob; hearken to Israel, your father."  
"Reuben, you are my firstborn, my strength, and the beginning of my power, the excellence of dignity, and the excellence of might.  
Unstable as water, you shall not excel; for you went up to your father's bed and defiled it; he went up to my couch."  
"Simeon and Levi are brothers; instruments of cruelty are in their dwellings."  
"O my soul, do not enter their secret; do not unite with their assembly, for in their anger they killed a man, and in their self-will they tore down a wall."  
"Cursed be their anger, for it was fierce; and their wrath, for it was cruel: I will divide them in Jacob and scatter them in Israel."  
"Judah, you are he whom your brothers shall praise; your hand shall be on the neck of your enemies; your father's children shall bow down before you."  
"Judah is a lion's cub; from the prey, my son, you have gone up; he crouched down, he lay as a lion, and as an old lion; who shall rouse him?"  
"The scepter shall not depart from Judah, nor a lawgiver from between his feet, until Shiloh comes; and to him shall be the gathering of the people."  
"Binding his foal to the vine, and his donkey's colt to the choice vine; he washed his garments in wine, and his clothes in the blood of grapes."  
"His eyes shall be red with wine, and his teeth white with milk."  
"Zebulun shall dwell by the haven of the sea; he shall be a haven for ships, and his border shall extend to Zidon."  
"Issachar is a strong donkey, crouching between two burdens."  
"And he saw that rest was good, and the land was pleasant; he bowed his shoulder to bear, and became a servant to tribute."  
"Dan shall judge his people, as one of the tribes of Israel."  
"Dan shall be a serpent by the way, an adder in the path, that bites the horse's heels, so that his rider falls backward."  
"I have waited for your salvation, O LORD."  
"Gad, a troop shall overcome him, but he shall overcome at last."  
"Out of Asher, his bread shall be rich, and he shall yield royal delicacies."  
"Naphtali is a deer let loose; he gives beautiful words."  
"Joseph is a fruitful bough, even a fruitful bough by a well; his branches run over the wall."  
"The archers have bitterly attacked him, shot at him, and hated him."  
"But his bow remained strong, and the arms of his hands were made strong by the hands of the Mighty God of Jacob; from there is the shepherd, the stone of Israel."  
"Even by the God of your father, who will help you; and by the Almighty, who will bless you with blessings from heaven above, blessings from the deep that lies beneath, blessings of the breasts and of the womb."  
"The blessings of your father have prevailed over the blessings of my ancestors to the utmost bound of the everlasting hills; they shall be on the head of Joseph, and on the crown of the head of him who was separate from his brothers."  
"Benjamin shall ravin as a wolf; in the morning he shall devour the prey, and at night he shall divide the spoil."  
"All these are the twelve tribes of Israel; and this is what their father spoke to them and blessed them; each one according to his blessing he blessed them."  
"And he charged them, saying, 'I am to be gathered to my people; bury me with my fathers in the cave that is in the field of Ephron the Hittite.'"  
"In the cave that is in the field of Machpelah, which is before Mamre, in the land of Canaan, which Abraham bought from Ephron the Hittite for a possession of a burial place."  
"There they buried Abraham and Sarah his wife; there they buried Isaac and Rebekah his wife; and there I buried Leah."  
"The purchase of the field and of the cave that is therein was from the children of Heth."  
"And when Jacob had finished commanding his sons, he gathered his feet into the bed, breathed his last, and was gathered to his people."