And the LORD appeared to him in the plains of Mamre; he sat at the tent door during the heat of the day.
He lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, three men stood by him. When he saw them, he ran to meet them from the tent door and bowed himself to the ground.
He said, "My LORD, if I have found favor in your sight, please do not pass by your servant."
"Let a little water be brought, and wash your feet; rest yourselves under the tree."
"I will bring a morsel of bread to comfort your hearts; after that, you may pass on, for that is why you have come to your servant." They replied, "So do as you have said."
Abraham hurried into the tent to Sarah and said, "Quickly make ready three measures of fine meal; knead it and make cakes on the hearth."
Abraham ran to the herd, fetched a tender and good calf, and gave it to a young man, who hurried to prepare it.
He took butter, milk, and the calf he had prepared, and set it before them. He stood by them under the tree, and they ate.
They asked him, "Where is Sarah your wife?" He answered, "Behold, she is in the tent."
He said, "I will surely return to you at the appointed time, and behold, Sarah your wife shall have a son." Sarah heard it from the tent door, which was behind him.
Now Abraham and Sarah were old, well advanced in age; it had ceased to be with Sarah after the manner of women.
Therefore, Sarah laughed to herself, saying, "After I am old, shall I have pleasure, my lord being old also?"
The LORD said to Abraham, "Why did Sarah laugh, saying, 'Shall I surely bear a child when I am old?'"
"Is anything too hard for the LORD? At the appointed time, I will return to you, according to the time of life, and Sarah shall have a son."
Then Sarah denied it, saying, "I did not laugh," for she was afraid. He said, "No, but you did laugh."
The men rose from there and looked toward Sodom, and Abraham went with them to send them on their way.
The LORD said, "Shall I hide from Abraham what I am about to do?
Seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation, and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him?
For I have known him, that he will command his children and his household after him, and they shall keep the way of the LORD, to do justice and judgment; that the LORD may bring upon Abraham what He has spoken of him."
The LORD said, "Because the outcry against Sodom and Gomorrah is great, and their sin is very grievous,
I will go down now and see whether they have done altogether according to the outcry that has come to me; and if not, I will know."
The men turned their faces from there and went toward Sodom, but Abraham stood still before the LORD.
Abraham drew near and said, "Will you also destroy the righteous with the wicked?
Perhaps there are fifty righteous within the city; will you also destroy and not spare the place for the fifty righteous who are there?"
"Far be it from you to do such a thing, to slay the righteous with the wicked, treating the righteous as the wicked. Far be it from you! Shall not the Judge of all the earth do right?"
The LORD said, "If I find in Sodom fifty righteous within the city, then I will spare all the place for their sakes."
Abraham answered and said, "Behold, I have taken it upon myself to speak to the LORD, I who am but dust and ashes.
Perhaps five of the fifty righteous will be lacking; will you destroy all the city for lack of five?" He said, "If I find there forty-five, I will not destroy it."
He spoke to him yet again and said, "Perhaps there will be forty found there." He said, "I will not do it for forty's sake."
He said, "Oh, let not the LORD be angry, and I will speak: Perhaps thirty will be found there." He said, "I will not do it if I find thirty there."
He said, "Behold, I have taken it upon myself to speak to the LORD: Perhaps twenty will be found there." He said, "I will not destroy it for twenty's sake."
He said, "Oh, let not the LORD be angry, and I will speak but this once: Perhaps ten will be found there." He said, "I will not destroy it for ten's sake."
The LORD went His way as soon as He had finished speaking with Abraham, and Abraham returned to his place.
