The vision of Obadiah. Thus says the Lord GOD concerning Edom: We have heard a rumor from the LORD, and an ambassador is sent among the nations. Arise, and let us rise up against her in battle.

Behold, I have made you small among the nations; you are greatly despised.

The pride of your heart has deceived you, you who dwell in the clefts of the rock, whose habitation is high; who says in his heart, "Who will bring me down to the ground?"

Though you exalt yourself like the eagle, and though you set your nest among the stars, from there I will bring you down, says the LORD.

If thieves came to you, if robbers by night—how you are cut off!—would they not have stolen until they had enough? If grape gatherers came to you, would they not leave some grapes?

How are the things of Esau searched out! How are his hidden treasures sought out!

All the men of your confederacy have brought you to the border; the men at peace with you have deceived you and prevailed against you. Those who eat your bread have laid a wound under you; there is no understanding in him.

Shall I not, in that day, says the LORD, even destroy the wise men out of Edom and understanding from the mountain of Esau?

And your mighty men, O Teman, shall be dismayed, so that everyone from the mountain of Esau may be cut off by slaughter.

For your violence against your brother Jacob, shame shall cover you, and you shall be cut off forever.

In the day that you stood on the other side, in the day that strangers carried away captive his forces, and foreigners entered his gates and cast lots for Jerusalem, even you were as one of them.

But you should not have looked on the day of your brother in the day he became a stranger; nor should you have rejoiced over the children of Judah in the day of their destruction; nor should you have spoken proudly in the day of distress.

You should not have entered the gate of my people in the day of their calamity; yes, you should not have looked on their affliction in the day of their calamity, nor have laid hands on their substance in the day of their calamity.

Neither should you have stood in the crossroads to cut off those of his who escaped; nor should you have delivered up those of his who remained in the day of distress.

For the day of the LORD is near upon all the nations: as you have done, it shall be done to you; your reward shall return upon your own head.

For as you have drunk upon my holy mountain, so shall all the nations drink continually; yes, they shall drink, and they shall swallow down, and they shall be as though they had never been.

But on Mount Zion there shall be deliverance, and there shall be holiness; and the house of Jacob shall possess their possessions.

And the house of Jacob shall be a fire, and the house of Joseph a flame, and the house of Esau for stubble; they shall kindle in them and devour them, and there shall be no survivors of the house of Esau, for the LORD has spoken it.

And those of the south shall possess the mountain of Esau, and those of the plain the Philistines; they shall possess the fields of Ephraim and the fields of Samaria, and Benjamin shall possess Gilead.

And the captives of this host of the children of Israel shall possess that of the Canaanites, as far as Zarephath; and the captives of Jerusalem, who are in Sepharad, shall possess the cities of the south.

And saviors shall come up on Mount Zion to judge the mountain of Esau, and the kingdom shall be the LORD's.