Therefore, we should pay closer attention to the things we have heard, so that we do not let them slip away at any time.  
For if the word spoken by angels was steadfast, and every transgression and act of disobedience received a just recompense of reward;  
How can we escape if we neglect such a great salvation, which was first announced by the Lord and confirmed to us by those who heard him?  
God also bore witness to them, both with signs and wonders, and with various miracles, and gifts of the Holy Spirit, according to His own will.  
For He did not put the world to come, of which we speak, in subjection to the angels.  
But one in a certain place testified, saying, "What is man that You are mindful of him? Or the son of man that You visit him?"  
You made him a little lower than the angels; You crowned him with glory and honor, and set him over the works of Your hands.  
You have put all things in subjection under his feet. For in that He put all in subjection under him, He left nothing that is not put under him. But now we do not yet see all things put under him.  
But we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels for the suffering of death, crowned with glory and honor; that He, by the grace of God, should taste death for everyone.  
For it was fitting for Him, for whom are all things and by whom are all things, in bringing many sons to glory, to make the captain of their salvation perfect through sufferings.  
For both He who sanctifies and those who are sanctified are all of one; for this reason, He is not ashamed to call them brethren,  
Saying, "I will declare Your name to my brethren; in the midst of the church, I will sing praise to You."  
And again, "I will put my trust in Him." And again, "Here I am, and the children God has given me."  
Since the children have flesh and blood in common, He also shared in their humanity, so that by His death He might destroy him who holds the power of death—that is, the devil—  
And free those who all their lives were held in slavery by their fear of death.  
For surely it is not angels He helps, but Abraham's descendants.  
For this reason, He had to be made like them, fully human in every way, in order that He might become a merciful and faithful high priest in service to God, and that He might make atonement for the sins of the people.  
Because He Himself suffered when He was tempted, He is able to help those who are being tempted.