Forasmuch as Christ has suffered for us in the flesh, arm yourselves likewise with the same mindset; for he who has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin.
That he should no longer live the rest of his time in the flesh to fulfill the desires of men, but to do the will of God.
For the time past of our lives is sufficient to have carried out the will of the Gentiles, when we indulged in sensuality, lusts, excesses of wine, revelries, banquets, and detestable idolatries.
They think it strange that you do not run with them into the same excess of riot, speaking evil of you.
They will give account to him who is ready to judge the living and the dead.
For this reason, the gospel was preached also to those who are dead, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the spirit.
But the end of all things is near; therefore, be sober and watchful in prayer.
And above all things, have fervent love for one another, for love will cover a multitude of sins.
Practice hospitality toward one another without complaining.
As each one has received a gift, minister it to one another, as good stewards of the manifold grace of God.
If anyone speaks, let him speak as the oracles of God; if anyone ministers, let him do it with the ability which God supplies, so that in all things God may be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom belong the glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen.
Beloved, do not think it strange concerning the fiery trial which is to test you, as though some unusual thing happened to you.
But rejoice, to the extent that you partake of Christ's sufferings, that when his glory is revealed, you may also be glad with exceeding joy.
If you are reproached for the name of Christ, blessed are you; for the Spirit of glory and of God rests upon you: on their part, he is blasphemed, but on your part, he is glorified.
But let none of you suffer as a murderer, a thief, an evildoer, or as a meddler in other people's matters.
Yet if anyone suffers as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God in this matter.
For the time has come for judgment to begin at the house of God; and if it begins with us first, what will be the end of those who do not obey the gospel of God?
And if the righteous one is scarcely saved, where will the ungodly and the sinner appear?
Therefore, let those who suffer according to the will of God commit their souls to him in doing good, as to a faithful Creator.
