And he arose from there, and came into the regions of Judea by the other side of the Jordan: and the people gathered unto him again; and, as he was accustomed, he taught them again.
And the Pharisees came to him, and asked him, Is it lawful for a man to divorce his wife? testing him.
And he answered and said unto them, What did Moses command you?
And they said, Moses permitted to write a certificate of divorce, and to send her away.
And Jesus answered and said unto them, For the hardness of your hearts he wrote you this command.
But from the beginning of creation, God made them male and female.
For this reason shall a man leave his father and mother, and be joined to his wife;
And the two shall become one flesh: so they are no longer two, but one flesh.
What therefore God has joined together, let not man separate.
And in the house, his disciples asked him again about the same matter.
And he said unto them, Whoever shall divorce his wife, and marry another, commits adultery against her.
And if a woman shall divorce her husband, and marry another, she commits adultery.
And they brought young children to him, that he might touch them: and his disciples rebuked those who brought them.
But when Jesus saw it, he was greatly displeased, and said unto them, Allow the little children to come unto me, and do not hinder them: for of such is the kingdom of God.
Truly I say unto you, Whoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, he shall not enter therein.
And he took them up in his arms, put his hands upon them, and blessed them.
And when he had gone forth on his way, there came one running, and kneeled to him, and asked him, Good Teacher, what shall I do that I may inherit eternal life?
And Jesus said unto him, Why do you call me good? There is none good but one, that is, God.
You know the commandments: Do not commit adultery, Do not kill, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Do not defraud, Honor your father and mother.
And he answered and said unto him, Teacher, all these have I kept from my youth.
Then Jesus, looking at him, loved him, and said unto him, One thing you lack: go your way, sell whatever you have, and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven: and come, take up the cross, and follow me.
And he was sad at that saying, and went away grieved: for he had great possessions.
And Jesus looked around, and said unto his disciples, How hard it is for those who have riches to enter into the kingdom of God!
And the disciples were astonished at his words. But Jesus answered again, and said unto them, Children, how hard is it for those who trust in riches to enter into the kingdom of God!
It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.
And they were greatly astonished, saying among themselves, Who then can be saved?
And Jesus, looking at them, said, With men it is impossible, but not with God: for with God all things are possible.
Then Peter began to say unto him, Look, we have left all, and have followed you.
And Jesus answered and said, Truly I say unto you, There is no man who has left house, or brothers, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my sake, and for the gospel's,
But he shall receive a hundredfold now in this time, houses, and brothers, and sisters, and mothers, and children, and lands, with persecutions; and in the world to come, eternal life.
But many who are first shall be last; and the last first.
And they were on the way going up to Jerusalem; and Jesus went before them: and they were amazed; and as they followed, they were afraid. And he took again the twelve, and began to tell them what things should happen unto him,
Saying, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem; and the Son of Man shall be delivered unto the chief priests, and unto the scribes; and they shall condemn him to death, and shall deliver him to the Gentiles:
And they shall mock him, and shall scourge him, and shall spit upon him, and shall kill him: and the third day he shall rise again.
And James and John, the sons of Zebedee, came unto him, saying, Teacher, we want you to do for us whatever we ask.
And he said unto them, What do you want me to do for you?
They said unto him, Grant unto us that we may sit, one on your right hand, and the other on your left hand, in your glory.
But Jesus said unto them, You do not know what you ask: can you drink of the cup that I drink of? and be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with?
And they said unto him, We can. And Jesus said unto them, You shall indeed drink of the cup that I drink of; and with the baptism that I am baptized with, you shall be baptized:
But to sit on my right hand and on my left hand is not mine to give; but it shall be given to them for whom it is prepared.
And when the ten heard it, they began to be much displeased with James and John.
But Jesus called them to him, and said unto them, You know that those who are considered rulers over the Gentiles exercise lordship over them; and their great ones exercise authority over them.
But it shall not be so among you: but whoever desires to be great among you shall be your servant:
And whoever of you desires to be first shall be servant of all.
For even the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give his life a ransom for many.
And they came to Jericho: and as he went out of Jericho with his disciples and a great multitude of people, blind Bartimaeus, the son of Timaeus, sat by the roadside begging.
And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out, and say, Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me.
And many warned him to be quiet: but he cried out all the more, Son of David, have mercy on me.
And Jesus stood still, and commanded him to be called. And they called the blind man, saying unto him, Be of good cheer, rise; he is calling you.
And he, throwing aside his garment, rose and came to Jesus.
And Jesus answered and said unto him, What do you want me to do for you? The blind man said unto him, Lord, that I may receive my sight.
And Jesus said unto him, Go your way; your faith has made you whole. And immediately he received his sight, and followed Jesus on the way.
