And after this, it came to pass that David struck the Philistines and subdued them; David took Methegammah from the hand of the Philistines.
He also struck Moab, measuring them with a line, casting them down to the ground; with two lines, he measured to put to death, and with one full line, to keep alive. Thus, the Moabites became David's servants and brought gifts.
David also struck Hadadezer, the son of Rehob, king of Zobah, as he went to recover his territory at the river Euphrates.
David took from him a thousand chariots, seven hundred horsemen, and twenty thousand foot soldiers; he hamstrung all the chariot horses but reserved enough for a hundred chariots.
When the Syrians of Damascus came to aid Hadadezer, king of Zobah, David killed twenty-two thousand of the Syrians.
Then David established garrisons in Syria of Damascus; the Syrians became David's servants and brought gifts. The LORD preserved David wherever he went.
David took the gold shields that belonged to the servants of Hadadezer and brought them to Jerusalem.
From Betah and Berothai, cities of Hadadezer, King David took a great quantity of bronze.
When Toi, king of Hamath, heard that David had defeated the entire army of Hadadezer,
he sent his son Joram to King David to greet him and bless him because he had fought against Hadadezer and defeated him, as Hadadezer had been at war with Toi. Joram brought with him vessels of silver, gold, and bronze.
King David dedicated these to the LORD, along with the silver and gold he had dedicated from all the nations he had subdued:
from Syria, Moab, the children of Ammon, the Philistines, Amalek, and the spoil of Hadadezer, son of Rehob, king of Zobah.
David gained a reputation when he returned from striking down the Syrians in the Valley of Salt, killing eighteen thousand men.
He established garrisons in Edom; throughout all Edom, he placed garrisons, and all the Edomites became David's servants. The LORD preserved David wherever he went.
David reigned over all Israel, executing judgment and justice for all his people.
Joab, the son of Zeruiah, was over the army, and Jehoshaphat, the son of Ahilud, was the recorder.
Zadok, the son of Ahitub, and Ahimelech, the son of Abiathar, were the priests, and Seraiah was the scribe.
Benaiah, the son of Jehoiada, was in charge of both the Cherethites and the Pelethites, and David's sons were chief officials.
