And Abraham was old and well advanced in age, and the LORD had blessed Abraham in all things.
And Abraham said to his eldest servant, who was in charge of all that he had, "Put, I pray you, your hand under my thigh."
"I will make you swear by the LORD, the God of heaven and the God of the earth, that you will not take a wife for my son from the daughters of the Canaanites, among whom I dwell."
"But you shall go to my country and to my relatives, and take a wife for my son Isaac."
The servant said to him, "Perhaps the woman will not be willing to follow me to this land; must I bring your son back to the land from which you came?"
Abraham said to him, "Beware that you do not bring my son back there."
"The LORD, the God of heaven, who took me from my father's house and from the land of my relatives, and who spoke to me and swore to me, saying, 'To your descendants, I will give this land,' He will send His angel before you, and you shall take a wife for my son from there."
"And if the woman is not willing to follow you, then you will be free from this oath; only do not bring my son back there."
The servant put his hand under the thigh of Abraham his master and swore to him concerning this matter.
The servant took ten camels from the camels of his master and departed, for all the goods of his master were in his hand. He arose and went to Mesopotamia, to the city of Nahor.
He made the camels kneel down outside the city by a well of water at evening time, the time when women go out to draw water.
He said, "O LORD God of my master Abraham, I pray You, send me good speed this day and show kindness to my master Abraham."
"Behold, I stand here by the well of water, and the daughters of the men of the city come out to draw water."
"Let it come to pass that the young woman to whom I say, 'Please let down your pitcher that I may drink,' and she says, 'Drink, and I will give your camels drink also,' let her be the one You have appointed for Your servant Isaac; and by this, I will know that You have shown kindness to my master."
Before he had finished speaking, behold, Rebekah came out, who was born to Bethuel, son of Milcah, the wife of Nahor, Abraham's brother, with her pitcher on her shoulder.
The young woman was very beautiful, a virgin; no man had known her. She went down to the well, filled her pitcher, and came up.
The servant ran to meet her and said, "Please let me drink a little water from your pitcher."
She said, "Drink, my lord." She hurried and let down her pitcher upon her hand and gave him a drink.
When she had finished giving him a drink, she said, "I will draw water for your camels also, until they have finished drinking."
She hurried and emptied her pitcher into the trough, ran back to the well to draw water, and drew for all his camels.
The man, wondering at her, remained silent to see whether the LORD had made his journey prosperous or not.
As the camels finished drinking, the man took a golden earring weighing half a shekel and two bracelets for her wrists weighing ten shekels of gold.
He said, "Whose daughter are you? Tell me, I pray you: is there room in your father's house for us to lodge in?"
She said to him, "I am the daughter of Bethuel, the son of Milcah, whom she bore to Nahor."
She added, "We have both straw and feed enough, and room to lodge in."
The man bowed down his head and worshipped the LORD.
He said, "Blessed be the LORD God of my master Abraham, who has not forsaken my master in his mercy and truth. I being on the way, the LORD led me to the house of my master's relatives."
The young woman ran and told her mother's household these things.
Rebekah had a brother, and his name was Laban; and Laban ran out to the man at the well.
When he saw the earring and bracelets on his sister's hands, and when he heard the words of Rebekah his sister, saying, "Thus spoke the man to me," he went to the man; and behold, he stood by the camels at the well.
He said, "Come in, you blessed of the LORD; why do you stand outside? For I have prepared the house and room for the camels."
The man came into the house, and he unloaded the camels and provided straw and feed for the camels, and water to wash his feet and the men's feet who were with him.
Food was set before him to eat, but he said, "I will not eat until I have told my errand." And he said, "Speak on."
He said, "I am Abraham's servant.
The LORD has blessed my master greatly, and he has become great; and He has given him flocks and herds, silver and gold, male and female servants, camels and donkeys.
Sarah, my master's wife, bore a son to my master when she was old, and to him he has given all that he has.
My master made me swear, saying, 'You shall not take a wife for my son from the daughters of the Canaanites, in whose land I dwell;
but you shall go to my father's house and to my relatives, and take a wife for my son.'
I said to my master, 'Perhaps the woman will not follow me.'
He said to me, 'The LORD, before whom I walk, will send His angel with you and prosper your way; and you shall take a wife for my son from my relatives and from my father's house.
Then you will be free from this oath when you come to my relatives; and if they do not give you one, you will be free from my oath.'
I came today to the well and said, 'O LORD God of my master Abraham, if now You will prosper my way in which I go:
Behold, I stand by the well of water, and it shall come to pass that when the virgin comes out to draw water, and I say to her, "Give me, I pray you, a little water from your pitcher to drink,"
and she says to me, "Drink, and I will also draw for your camels," let her be the woman whom the LORD has appointed for my master's son.'
Before I had finished speaking in my heart, behold, Rebekah came forth with her pitcher on her shoulder; she went down to the well and drew water. I said to her, "Let me drink, I pray you."
She made haste, let down her pitcher from her shoulder, and said, "Drink, and I will give your camels drink also." So I drank, and she made the camels drink also.
I asked her, "Whose daughter are you?" And she said, "The daughter of Bethuel, Nahor's son, whom Milcah bore to him." I put the earring on her face and the bracelets on her hands.
I bowed down my head and worshipped the LORD, and blessed the LORD God of my master Abraham, who had led me in the right way to take my master's brother's daughter for his son.
Now if you will deal kindly and truly with my master, tell me; and if not, tell me, that I may turn to the right or to the left."
Then Laban and Bethuel answered and said, "The matter comes from the LORD; we cannot speak to you either bad or good.
Behold, Rebekah is before you; take her and go, and let her be your master's son's wife, as the LORD has spoken."
When Abraham's servant heard their words, he worshipped the LORD, bowing himself to the ground.
The servant brought out jewelry of silver and gold and garments and gave them to Rebekah; he also gave precious things to her brother and her mother.
They ate and drank, he and the men who were with him, and stayed all night; and they rose up in the morning, and he said, "Send me away to my master."
Her brother and her mother said, "Let the young woman stay with us a few days, at least ten; after that she may go."
He said to them, "Do not hinder me, since the LORD has prospered my way; send me away so that I may go to my master."
They said, "We will call the young woman and ask her."
They called Rebekah and said to her, "Will you go with this man?" And she said, "I will go."
They sent away Rebekah their sister, and her nurse, and Abraham's servant, and his men.
They blessed Rebekah and said to her, "You are our sister; may you become the mother of thousands of millions, and may your offspring possess the gate of those who hate them."
Rebekah arose with her maids, and they rode on the camels and followed the man. The servant took Rebekah and went his way.
Isaac came from the way of the well Lahairoi, for he dwelt in the south country.
Isaac went out to meditate in the field at evening; he lifted up his eyes and saw, and behold, the camels were coming.
Rebekah lifted up her eyes, and when she saw Isaac, she dismounted from the camel.
She had said to the servant, "What man is this who walks in the field to meet us?" The servant had said, "It is my master." Therefore, she took a veil and covered herself.
The servant told Isaac all the things that he had done.
Isaac brought her into his mother Sarah's tent, took Rebekah, and she became his wife; and he loved her. Isaac was comforted after his mother's death.
