But it came to pass after a while, during the wheat harvest, that Samson visited his wife with a young goat; and he said, "I will go into my wife in her chamber." However, her father did not allow him to enter.

Her father replied, "I truly thought you had completely despised her; therefore, I gave her to your companion. Is not her younger sister more beautiful than she? Please take her instead."

Samson responded regarding them, "Now I shall be more justified than the Philistines, even though I am doing them harm."

Samson went and caught three hundred foxes, took torches, and tied them tail to tail, placing a torch between each pair.

After setting the torches on fire, he released them into the standing grain of the Philistines, burning up both the sheaves and the standing grain, along with the vineyards and olive trees.

Then the Philistines asked, "Who has done this?" They were told, "Samson, the son-in-law of the Timnite, because he took his wife and gave her to his companion." The Philistines then went up and burned her and her father to death.

Samson said to them, "Although you have done this, I will take revenge on you, and after that, I will stop."

He struck them down with a great slaughter, and then he went down and dwelt at the top of the rock Etam.

The Philistines went up and camped in Judah, spreading out in Lehi.

The men of Judah asked, "Why have you come against us?" They answered, "We have come to bind Samson, to do to him as he has done to us."

Then three thousand men of Judah went to the top of the rock Etam and said to Samson, "Do you not know that the Philistines rule over us? What have you done to us?" He replied, "As they did to me, so I have done to them."

They said to him, "We have come down to bind you, so we can deliver you into the hands of the Philistines." Samson said to them, "Swear to me that you will not attack me yourselves."

They answered him, "No; we will bind you securely and deliver you into their hands, but we will not kill you." They bound him with two new ropes and brought him up from the rock.

When he arrived at Lehi, the Philistines shouted against him, and the Spirit of the LORD came mightily upon him. The ropes on his arms became like burnt flax, and his bonds fell off his hands.

He found a fresh jawbone of a donkey, reached out his hand, took it, and killed a thousand men with it.

Samson said, "With the jawbone of a donkey, I have piled them in heaps; with the jawbone of a donkey, I have slain a thousand men."

When he finished speaking, he threw away the jawbone and named that place Ramathlehi.

He was very thirsty and called on the LORD, saying, "You have granted this great victory to your servant, and now shall I die of thirst and fall into the hands of the uncircumcised?"

But God opened up a hollow place in the jawbone, and water came out. When he drank, his spirit revived, and he named it Enhakkore, which is in Lehi to this day.

He judged Israel for twenty years during the days of the Philistines.