And he showed me a pure river of the water of life, clear as crystal, flowing from the throne of God and of the Lamb.  
In the middle of the street and on either side of the river stood the tree of life, which bore twelve kinds of fruit, yielding its fruit every month; and the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations.  
And there shall be no more curse; but the throne of God and of the Lamb shall be in it, and His servants shall serve Him.  
They shall see His face, and His name shall be on their foreheads.  
And there shall be no night there; they need no lamp or light of the sun, for the Lord God gives them light, and they shall reign forever and ever.  
And he said to me, "These sayings are faithful and true; the Lord God of the holy prophets sent His angel to show His servants the things which must shortly take place."  
"Behold, I come quickly; blessed is he who keeps the words of the prophecy of this book."  
And I, John, saw these things and heard them. When I had heard and seen, I fell down to worship before the feet of the angel who showed me these things.  
Then he said to me, "See that you do not do that; for I am your fellow servant, and of your brethren the prophets, and of those who keep the words of this book; worship God."  
And he said to me, "Do not seal the words of the prophecy of this book, for the time is at hand."  
He who is unjust, let him be unjust still; he who is filthy, let him be filthy still; he who is righteous, let him be righteous still; he who is holy, let him be holy still.  
And behold, I come quickly, and my reward is with me, to give to everyone according to his work.  
I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last.  
Blessed are those who do His commandments, that they may have the right to the tree of life and may enter through the gates into the city.  
For outside are dogs, sorcerers, sexually immoral, murderers, idolaters, and whoever loves and practices a lie.  
I, Jesus, have sent My angel to testify to you these things in the churches. I am the root and the offspring of David, the bright and morning star.  
And the Spirit and the bride say, "Come." And let him who hears say, "Come." And let him who is thirsty come. And whoever desires, let him take the water of life freely.  
For I testify to everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this book: If anyone adds to these things, God will add to him the plagues that are written in this book;  
And if anyone takes away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God shall take away his part from the book of life, from the holy city, and from the things which are written in this book.  
He who testifies to these things says, "Surely I come quickly." Amen. Even so, come, Lord Jesus.  
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.