Then Agrippa said to Paul, "You are permitted to speak for yourself." Paul extended his hand and began to defend himself:
"I consider myself fortunate, King Agrippa, because I will answer for myself today regarding all the accusations made against me by the Jews.
Especially since I know you to be well-versed in all customs and controversies concerning the Jews; therefore, I ask you to listen to me patiently.
My way of life from my youth, which began among my own people in Jerusalem, is known by all the Jews.
They have known me from the beginning, and if they were willing to testify, they would confirm that I lived as a Pharisee, adhering to the strictest sect of our religion.
And now I stand here being judged for the hope of the promise made by God to our ancestors.
To this promise, our twelve tribes earnestly serve God day and night, hoping to attain it. For this hope, King Agrippa, I am being accused by the Jews.
Why should it be considered incredible by you that God raises the dead?
I truly believed that I must do many things contrary to the name of Jesus of Nazareth.
And I did just that in Jerusalem: I imprisoned many of the saints, having received authority from the chief priests; and when they were executed, I cast my vote against them.
I often punished them in every synagogue and compelled them to blaspheme; in my extreme rage against them, I persecuted them even to foreign cities.
As I was on my way to Damascus with authority and commission from the chief priests,
At midday, O King, I saw a light from heaven, brighter than the sun, shining around me and those traveling with me.
When we all fell to the ground, I heard a voice speaking to me in the Hebrew language, 'Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? It is hard for you to kick against the goads.'
I asked, 'Who are you, Lord?' And the reply came, 'I am Jesus whom you are persecuting.
But rise and stand on your feet; for I have appeared to you for this purpose, to appoint you as a minister and a witness of both the things you have seen and of those things I will reveal to you;
Delivering you from your people and from the Gentiles, to whom I now send you,
To open their eyes, to turn them from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan to God, so that they may receive forgiveness of sins and an inheritance among those who are sanctified by faith in me.
Therefore, O King Agrippa, I was not disobedient to the heavenly vision,
But I first proclaimed it to those in Damascus, then in Jerusalem, and throughout all the region of Judea, and also to the Gentiles, urging them to repent and turn to God, and to perform deeds consistent with repentance.
For these reasons, the Jews seized me in the temple and attempted to kill me.
However, having received help from God, I stand here today, testifying to both small and great, saying nothing except what the prophets and Moses said would happen:
That the Christ would suffer, and that he would be the first to rise from the dead, and would proclaim light to the people and to the Gentiles.
As he spoke for himself, Festus shouted loudly, "Paul, you are out of your mind; your great learning is driving you mad."
But Paul replied, "I am not mad, most excellent Festus; I am speaking the words of truth and reason.
For the king is familiar with these matters, and I speak freely to him; I am convinced that none of these things has escaped his notice, for this was not done in a corner.
King Agrippa, do you believe the prophets? I know that you believe."
Then Agrippa said to Paul, "You almost persuade me to become a Christian."
And Paul replied, "I would to God that not only you, but also all who hear me today, might become such as I am, except for these chains."
When he had said this, the king rose, along with the governor, Bernice, and those sitting with them.
After they had left, they discussed the matter among themselves, saying, "This man has done nothing deserving of death or imprisonment."
Then Agrippa said to Festus, "This man could have been set free if he had not appealed to Caesar."
