And a great wonder appeared in heaven: a woman clothed with the sun, the moon beneath her feet, and a crown of twelve stars upon her head.  
She was with child and cried out, in the pains of childbirth, longing to be delivered.  
Another wonder appeared in heaven: behold, a great red dragon, with seven heads and ten horns, and seven crowns upon his heads.  
His tail swept a third of the stars from heaven and cast them to the earth; the dragon stood before the woman, ready to devour her child as soon as it was born.  
She gave birth to a male child, destined to rule all nations with a rod of iron; her child was caught up to God and to His throne.  
The woman fled into the wilderness, where God had prepared a place for her, to be nourished there for one thousand two hundred and sixty days.  
There was war in heaven: Michael and his angels fought against the dragon, and the dragon and his angels fought back,  
But they did not prevail, nor was there any place found for them in heaven anymore.  
The great dragon was cast out, that ancient serpent called the Devil and Satan, who deceives the whole world; he was thrown down to the earth, and his angels were cast out with him.  
I heard a loud voice in heaven proclaiming, "Now has come salvation, strength, the kingdom of our God, and the power of His Christ; for the accuser of our brethren has been cast down, who accused them before our God day and night."  
They overcame him by the blood of the Lamb and by the word of their testimony; they did not love their lives even unto death.  
Therefore, rejoice, you heavens, and you who dwell in them! Woe to the inhabitants of the earth and the sea! For the devil has come down to you, filled with great wrath, knowing that he has but a short time.  
When the dragon saw that he had been cast down to the earth, he persecuted the woman who had given birth to the male child.  
To the woman were given two wings of a great eagle, so that she might fly into the wilderness, to her place, where she is nourished for a time, times, and half a time, from the presence of the serpent.  
The serpent spewed water like a flood out of his mouth after the woman, in an attempt to sweep her away with the flood.  
But the earth helped the woman; it opened its mouth and swallowed the flood that the dragon had cast out of his mouth.  
The dragon was enraged with the woman and went to make war with the remnant of her offspring, who keep the commandments of God and hold to the testimony of Jesus Christ.