Let a man regard us as ministers of Christ and stewards of God's mysteries.  
Moreover, it is required of stewards that they be found faithful.  
But to me, it is a trivial matter to be judged by you or by human standards; indeed, I do not even judge myself.  
For I am aware of nothing against myself; yet I am not justified by this; the one who judges me is the Lord.  
Therefore, do not judge anything before the appointed time, until the Lord comes, who will bring to light the hidden things of darkness and reveal the intentions of the hearts; then each person will receive praise from God.  
And these things, brothers, I have figuratively applied to myself and Apollos for your benefit, so that you may learn not to think of men beyond what is written, and that none of you may become arrogant in favor of one against another.  
For who makes you different from anyone else? And what do you have that you did not receive? If you received it, why do you boast as though you had not received it?  
Now you are full, now you are rich; you have become kings without us. I wish you did reign, so that we might reign with you.  
For I think that God has displayed us, the apostles, last, as if appointed to death; for we have become a spectacle to the world, to angels, and to men.  
We are fools for Christ's sake, but you are wise in Christ; we are weak, but you are strong; you are honored, but we are despised.  
Even to this present hour, we both hunger and thirst, and are poorly clothed, and are beaten, and have no fixed dwelling place;  
And we labor, working with our own hands; when reviled, we bless; when persecuted, we endure;  
When slandered, we entreat; we have become the scum of the earth, the refuse of all things to this day.  
I do not write these things to shame you, but to warn you as my beloved children.  
For even if you had ten thousand instructors in Christ, you do not have many fathers; for in Christ Jesus, I have begotten you through the gospel.  
Therefore, I urge you to be imitators of me.  
For this reason, I have sent to you Timothy, my beloved son and faithful in the Lord, who will remind you of my ways in Christ, as I teach everywhere in every church.  
Now some are puffed up, as if I were not coming to you.  
But I will come to you soon, if the Lord wills, and I will find out not the talk of those who are puffed up, but their power.  
For the kingdom of God is not in word, but in power.  
What do you want? Shall I come to you with a rod, or in love and a spirit of gentleness?