But in the last days, it shall come to pass that the mountain of the house of the LORD will be established at the top of the mountains, and it will be exalted above the hills; and people will flow to it.
And many nations will come and say, "Come, let us go up to the mountain of the LORD and to the house of the God of Jacob; He will teach us His ways, and we will walk in His paths, for the law will go forth from Zion and the word of the LORD from Jerusalem."
And He will judge among many people and rebuke strong nations from afar; they will beat their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning hooks: nation will not lift up a sword against nation, nor will they learn war anymore.
But they will sit every man under his vine and under his fig tree, and none will make them afraid, for the mouth of the LORD of hosts has spoken it.
For all people will walk, each one in the name of his god, and we will walk in the name of the LORD our God forever and ever.
In that day, says the LORD, I will assemble those who are lame, and I will gather those who have been driven out and those whom I have afflicted;
And I will make the lame a remnant and those who were cast far off a strong nation; and the LORD will reign over them in Mount Zion from now on, even forever.
And you, O tower of the flock, the stronghold of the daughter of Zion, to you it shall come, even the first dominion; the kingdom shall come to the daughter of Jerusalem.
Now why do you cry out aloud? Is there no king in you? Has your counselor perished? For pangs have taken you as a woman in labor.
Be in pain and labor to bring forth, O daughter of Zion, like a woman in travail; for now you shall go forth out of the city, and you shall dwell in the field, and you shall go even to Babylon; there you shall be delivered; there the LORD shall redeem you from the hand of your enemies.
Now also many nations are gathered against you, saying, "Let her be defiled, and let our eye look upon Zion."
But they do not know the thoughts of the LORD, nor do they understand His counsel; for He will gather them like sheaves to the threshing floor.
Arise and thresh, O daughter of Zion; for I will make your horn iron, and I will make your hooves bronze; and you shall beat in pieces many people, and I will consecrate their gain to the LORD and their substance to the Lord of the whole earth.
