It came to pass that when Sanballat, Tobiah, Geshem the Arabian, and the rest of our enemies heard that I had built the wall and that there was no breach left in it (though at that time I had not yet set up the doors on the gates),
Sanballat and Geshem sent to me, saying, "Come, let us meet together in one of the villages in the plain of Ono." But they intended to do me harm.
I sent messengers to them, saying, "I am engaged in a great work, and I cannot come down. Why should the work cease while I leave it to come down to you?"
Yet they sent to me four times in this manner, and I answered them the same way each time.
Then Sanballat sent his servant to me a fifth time with an open letter in his hand,
in which it was written, "It is reported among the nations, and Gashmu says it, that you and the Jews intend to rebel. That is why you are building the wall, so that you may become their king, according to these words.
And you have also appointed prophets to proclaim concerning you in Jerusalem, saying, 'There is a king in Judah.' Now this report will be made to the king according to these words. Come now, therefore, and let us confer together."
I replied to him, saying, "There is no truth to the things you are saying; you are inventing them out of your own mind."
For they all sought to intimidate us, saying, "Their hands will be weakened from the work, and it will not be done." Now therefore, O God, strengthen my hands.
Afterward, I went to the house of Shemaiah the son of Delaiah the son of Mehetabeel, who was confined to his home. He said, "Let us meet together in the house of God, within the temple, and let us shut the doors of the temple, for they are coming to kill you; yes, in the night they will come to kill you."
I said, "Should such a man as I flee? And who is there that, being as I am, would go into the temple to save his life? I will not go in."
And behold, I perceived that God had not sent him, but that he pronounced this prophecy against me because Tobiah and Sanballat had hired him.
He was hired to intimidate me, to cause me to be afraid, and to sin, so that they might have grounds for an evil report and reproach me.
My God, remember Tobiah and Sanballat according to their works, and also the prophetess Noadiah and the rest of the prophets who sought to intimidate me.
So the wall was completed on the twenty-fifth day of the month Elul, in fifty-two days.
When all our enemies heard about this, and all the nations around us saw these things, they were greatly disheartened in their own eyes, for they realized that this work had been accomplished with the help of our God.
Moreover, in those days, the nobles of Judah sent many letters to Tobiah, and Tobiah's letters came to them.
For many in Judah were bound by oath to him, since he was the son-in-law of Shechaniah the son of Arah, and his son Johanan had married the daughter of Meshullam the son of Berechiah.
They also reported his good deeds to me and relayed my words to him. And Tobiah sent letters to intimidate me.
