The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD was as follows:
"Stand at the gate of the LORD's house and proclaim this message: 'Hear the word of the LORD, all you people of Judah who enter through these gates to worship the LORD.'
Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: 'Change your ways and your actions, and I will let you live in this place.'
Do not trust in deceptive words, saying, 'The temple of the LORD, the temple of the LORD, the temple of the LORD!'
For if you truly change your ways and your actions; if you truly administer justice between a man and his neighbor;
If you do not oppress the foreigner, the fatherless, and the widow, and do not shed innocent blood in this place, nor follow other gods to your own harm:
Then I will let you live in this place, in the land I gave to your ancestors, forever and ever.
Look, you are trusting in deceptive words that are worthless.
Will you steal, murder, commit adultery, swear falsely, burn incense to Baal, and follow other gods you do not know,
And then come and stand before me in this house, which bears my name, and say, 'We are safe to do all these detestable things'?
Has this house, which bears my name, become a den of robbers in your eyes? Look, I have seen it, declares the LORD.
But go now to my place in Shiloh, where I first made my name dwell, and see what I did to it because of the wickedness of my people Israel.
And now, because you have done all these things, declares the LORD, and I spoke to you again and again, but you did not listen; I called you, but you did not answer;
Therefore, I will do to this house, which bears my name, the trust you have in it, and to the place I gave you and your ancestors, what I did to Shiloh.
I will cast you out of my sight, just as I cast out all your fellow Israelites, the entire offspring of Ephraim.
So do not pray for this people, nor offer any plea or petition for them; do not plead with me, for I will not listen to you.
Do you not see what they are doing in the towns of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem?
The children gather wood, the fathers light the fire, and the women knead the dough to make cakes for the Queen of Heaven and to pour out drink offerings to other gods, provoking me to anger.
Am I the one they are provoking? declares the LORD. Are they not rather harming themselves, to their own shame?
Therefore, this is what the Sovereign LORD says: My anger and my wrath will be poured out on this place, on man and beast, on the trees of the field and on the crops of your land; it will burn and not be quenched.
This is what the LORD Almighty, the God of Israel, says: 'Add your burnt offerings to your sacrifices and eat the meat yourselves.
For when I brought your ancestors out of Egypt and spoke to them, I did not just give them commands about burnt offerings and sacrifices,
But I gave them this command: Obey me, and I will be your God and you will be my people. Walk in obedience to all I command you, that it may go well with you.'
Yet they did not listen or pay attention; instead, they followed the stubborn inclinations of their evil hearts. They went backward and not forward.
From the time your ancestors left Egypt until now, day after day, again and again I sent you my servants the prophets.
But they did not listen to me or pay attention. They were stiff-necked and did more evil than their ancestors.
You are to tell them all this, but they will not listen to you; you are to call to them, but they will not answer.
Say to them, 'This is the nation that has not obeyed the LORD its God or responded to correction. Truth has perished; it has vanished from their lips.'
Cut off your hair, O Jerusalem, and throw it away; make a lamentation on the barren heights, for the LORD has rejected and forsaken this generation that is under his wrath.
The people of Judah have done evil in my eyes, declares the LORD; they have set up their detestable idols in the house that bears my Name and have defiled it.
They have built the high places of Tophet in the Valley of Ben Hinnom to burn their sons and daughters in the fire—something I did not command, nor did it enter my mind.
So beware, the days are coming, declares the LORD, when people will no longer call it Tophet or the Valley of Ben Hinnom, but the Valley of Slaughter, for they will bury the dead in Tophet until there is no more room.
The carcasses of this people will be food for the birds and the wild animals, and no one will frighten them away.
I will bring an end to the sounds of joy and gladness, to the voices of the bride and bridegroom, for the land will become desolate."
