And Isaac called Jacob, blessed him, and charged him, saying, "You shall not take a wife from the daughters of Canaan.
Arise, go to Padanaram, to the house of Bethuel, your mother's father; and take a wife from there from the daughters of Laban, your mother's brother.
And may God Almighty bless you, make you fruitful, and multiply you, so that you may become a multitude of people.
And may He give you the blessing of Abraham, to you and to your descendants with you; that you may inherit the land where you are a stranger, which God gave to Abraham.
So Isaac sent Jacob away, and he went to Padanaram, to Laban, the son of Bethuel the Syrian, the brother of Rebekah, Jacob's and Esau's mother.
When Esau saw that Isaac had blessed Jacob and sent him away to Padanaram to take a wife from there; and that as he blessed him, he charged him, saying, "You shall not take a wife from the daughters of Canaan,"
And that Jacob obeyed his father and mother and went to Padanaram;
Esau realized that the daughters of Canaan did not please Isaac, his father;
Then Esau went to Ishmael and took Mahalath, the daughter of Ishmael, Abraham's son, the sister of Nebajoth, to be his wife, in addition to the wives he already had.
And Jacob left Beersheba and headed toward Haran.
He came to a certain place and stayed there all night because the sun had set; he took some stones from that place, put them under his head, and lay down to sleep.
He dreamed, and behold, a ladder was set up on the earth, and its top reached to heaven; and behold, the angels of God were ascending and descending on it.
And behold, the LORD stood above it and said, "I am the LORD God of Abraham your father and the God of Isaac; the land on which you lie, I will give to you and your descendants.
Your descendants shall be as the dust of the earth, and you shall spread abroad to the west, the east, the north, and the south; and in you and in your descendants, all the families of the earth shall be blessed.
And behold, I am with you and will keep you in all the places where you go, and will bring you back to this land; for I will not leave you until I have done what I have promised you."
Then Jacob awoke from his sleep and said, "Surely the LORD is in this place, and I did not know it."
He was afraid and said, "How awesome is this place! This is none other than the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven."
Early in the morning, Jacob took the stone he had put under his head, set it up as a pillar, and poured oil on top of it.
He called the name of that place Bethel, but the name of that city was originally Luz.
Then Jacob made a vow, saying, "If God will be with me, keep me in this way that I go, give me bread to eat, and clothing to wear,
So that I return to my father's house in peace, then the LORD shall be my God.
And this stone, which I have set up as a pillar, shall be God's house; and of all that You give me, I will surely give a tenth to You."
