Now, after passing through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they arrived in Thessalonica, where there was a synagogue of the Jews.
As was his custom, Paul went in to speak with them, reasoning with them from the Scriptures for three Sabbath days.
He opened the Scriptures and explained that Christ had to suffer and rise from the dead, declaring that this Jesus, whom I preach to you, is the Christ.
Some of them believed and joined Paul and Silas, along with a large number of devout Greeks and several prominent women.
However, the unbelieving Jews, filled with jealousy, recruited some unruly men from the marketplace, gathered a crowd, and caused an uproar in the city, attacking the house of Jason and trying to bring them out to the people.
When they could not find them, they dragged Jason and some other believers before the city officials, shouting, "These men who have turned the world upside down have come here too!
Jason has welcomed them, and they are all acting against the decrees of Caesar, claiming that there is another king, Jesus."
This stirred up the crowd and the city officials when they heard these accusations.
After taking a security bond from Jason and the others, they let them go.
The brothers immediately sent Paul and Silas away by night to Berea, where they entered the synagogue of the Jews.
The Bereans were more noble than those in Thessalonica, as they received the word with eagerness and examined the Scriptures daily to see if these things were true.
As a result, many of them believed, including a number of honorable Greek women and several men.
But when the Jews in Thessalonica learned that the word of God was being proclaimed by Paul in Berea, they came there as well, agitating the crowds.
Immediately, the brothers sent Paul away to the sea, while Silas and Timothy remained there.
Those who escorted Paul brought him to Athens, and he instructed Silas and Timothy to join him as soon as possible.
While Paul was waiting for them in Athens, he was greatly distressed to see that the city was full of idols.
So he reasoned in the synagogue with the Jews and the devout persons, and in the marketplace every day with those who happened to be there.
Some Epicurean and Stoic philosophers also conversed with him. Some asked, "What does this babbler want to say?" Others remarked, "He seems to be advocating foreign gods," because he was preaching about Jesus and the resurrection.
They took him and brought him to the Areopagus, asking, "May we know what this new teaching is that you are presenting?
You are bringing some strange ideas to our ears, and we want to know what they mean."
(All the Athenians and the foreigners who lived there spent their time doing nothing but talking about and listening to the latest ideas.)
Then Paul stood in the middle of the Areopagus and said, "Men of Athens, I see that in every way you are very religious.
For as I walked around and looked carefully at your objects of worship, I even found an altar with this inscription: TO AN UNKNOWN GOD. So you are ignorant of the very thing you worship, and this is what I am going to proclaim to you.
The God who made the world and everything in it is the Lord of heaven and earth and does not live in temples built by human hands.
And he is not served by human hands, as if he needed anything; rather, he himself gives everyone life and breath and everything else.
From one man he made all the nations, that they should inhabit the whole earth; and he marked out their appointed times in history and the boundaries of their lands.
God did this so that they would seek him and perhaps reach out for him and find him, though he is not far from any one of us.
For in him we live and move and have our being, as some of your own poets have said, 'We are his offspring.'
Therefore, since we are God's offspring, we should not think that the divine being is like gold or silver or stone—an image made by human design and skill.
In the past, God overlooked such ignorance, but now he commands all people everywhere to repent.
For he has set a day when he will judge the world with justice by the man he has appointed. He has given proof of this to everyone by raising him from the dead."
When they heard about the resurrection of the dead, some mocked, but others said, "We want to hear you again on this subject."
At that, Paul left the council.
Some of the people became followers of Paul and believed. Among them was Dionysius, a member of the Areopagus, also a woman named Damaris, and a number of others.
