Now, on the first day of the week, very early in the morning, they came to the tomb, bringing the spices they had prepared, along with others.
And they found the stone rolled away from the tomb.
And they entered in and did not find the body of the Lord Jesus.
And it happened that, as they were greatly perplexed about this, behold, two men stood by them in shining garments.
And as they were afraid and bowed down their faces to the ground, they said to them, "Why do you seek the living among the dead?"
He is not here, but has risen: remember how he spoke to you when he was still in Galilee,
Saying, "The Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and on the third day rise again."
And they remembered his words,
And returned from the tomb, and told all these things to the eleven and to all the rest.
It was Mary Magdalene, Joanna, Mary the mother of James, and other women with them who told these things to the apostles.
And their words seemed to them like idle tales, and they did not believe them.
Then Peter arose and ran to the tomb; and stooping down, he saw the linen clothes laid by themselves, and departed, wondering in himself at what had happened.
And behold, two of them went that same day to a village called Emmaus, which was about seven miles from Jerusalem.
And they talked together about all these things that had happened.
And it came to pass, that while they conversed and reasoned, Jesus himself drew near and went with them.
But their eyes were restrained so that they did not know him.
And he said to them, "What kind of conversation is this that you have with one another as you walk and are sad?"
And one of them, whose name was Cleopas, answered and said to him, "Are you only a stranger in Jerusalem, and have you not known the things which have happened there in these days?"
And he said to them, "What things?" And they said to him, "Concerning Jesus of Nazareth, who was a prophet mighty in deed and word before God and all the people:
And how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death, and crucified him.
But we were hoping that it was he who was going to redeem Israel; and besides all this, today is the third day since these things happened.
Yes, and certain women of our company amazed us, who were early at the tomb;
And when they did not find his body, they came, saying they had also seen a vision of angels who said he was alive.
And certain of those who were with us went to the tomb and found it just as the women had said; but him they did not see.
Then he said to them, "O foolish ones, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken:
Ought not the Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory?"
And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself.
And they drew near to the village where they were going, and he made as though he would have gone further.
But they constrained him, saying, "Abide with us, for it is toward evening, and the day is far spent." And he went in to stay with them.
And it came to pass, as he sat at the table with them, he took bread, blessed it, broke it, and gave it to them.
And their eyes were opened, and they knew him; and he vanished from their sight.
And they said to one another, "Did not our hearts burn within us while he talked with us on the road, and while he opened the scriptures to us?"
And they rose up that very hour and returned to Jerusalem, and found the eleven gathered together, and those who were with them,
Saying, "The Lord is risen indeed, and has appeared to Simon."
And they told what things had happened on the road, and how he was known to them in the breaking of bread.
And as they spoke, Jesus himself stood in the midst of them, and said to them, "Peace be to you."
But they were terrified and frightened, and supposed they had seen a spirit.
And he said to them, "Why are you troubled? And why do doubts arise in your hearts?
Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself: handle me and see; for a spirit does not have flesh and bones, as you see I have."
And when he had said this, he showed them his hands and his feet.
And while they still did not believe for joy, and marveled, he said to them, "Have you any food here?"
And they gave him a piece of broiled fish and some honeycomb.
And he took it and ate in their presence.
And he said to them, "These are the words which I spoke to you while I was still with you, that all things must be fulfilled which were written in the law of Moses, and in the prophets, and in the psalms, concerning me."
Then he opened their understanding, that they might comprehend the scriptures,
And said to them, "Thus it is written, and thus it was necessary for the Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead the third day,
And that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name to all nations, beginning at Jerusalem.
And you are witnesses of these things.
And behold, I send the promise of my Father upon you; but tarry in the city of Jerusalem until you are endued with power from on high."
And he led them out as far as Bethany, and he lifted up his hands and blessed them.
And it came to pass, while he blessed them, he was parted from them and carried up into heaven.
And they worshiped him and returned to Jerusalem with great joy,
And were continually in the temple, praising and blessing God. Amen.
