Do we need to start again by commending ourselves? Or do we require, like some others, letters of recommendation to you, or letters of commendation from you?  
You are our letter, written in our hearts, known and read by all people.  
For you are clearly shown to be the letter of Christ, delivered by us, written not with ink, but with the Spirit of the living God; not on tablets of stone, but on tablets of flesh, which are the hearts of men.  
And we have such confidence through Christ toward God.  
Not that we are adequate in ourselves to consider anything as coming from ourselves; our adequacy is from God,  
Who has made us competent ministers of the new covenant; not of the letter, but of the Spirit: for the letter kills, but the Spirit gives life.  
But if the ministry of death, engraved in letters on stone, was glorious, so that the children of Israel could not steadily look at the face of Moses because of the glory of his countenance, which glory was to fade away,  
How will the ministry of the Spirit not be even more glorious?  
For if the ministry of condemnation is glorious, much more does the ministry of righteousness exceed in glory.  
For even what was made glorious had no glory in this respect, because of the glory that surpasses it.  
For if what was fading away was glorious, much more that which remains is glorious.  
Therefore, since we have such hope, we speak with great boldness.  
And we do not act like Moses, who put a veil over his face so that the children of Israel could not steadily look at the end of what was fading away.  
But their minds were hardened; for to this day the same veil remains unlifted in the reading of the old covenant, which veil is removed in Christ.  
But even to this day, when Moses is read, a veil lies over their hearts.  
Nevertheless, when one turns to the Lord, the veil is taken away.  
Now the Lord is the Spirit; and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom.  
But we all, with unveiled faces, reflecting as in a mirror the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from glory to glory, just as by the Spirit of the Lord.