And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,  
This shall be the law for the leper on the day of his cleansing: He shall be brought to the priest.  
And the priest shall go outside the camp; and the priest shall examine him, and behold, if the leprosy has been healed in the leper,  
Then the priest shall command that for him who is to be cleansed, two live and clean birds, cedar wood, scarlet yarn, and hyssop be taken.  
And the priest shall command that one of the birds be killed in an earthen vessel over running water.  
As for the living bird, he shall take it, along with the cedar wood, scarlet yarn, and hyssop, and shall dip them and the living bird in the blood of the bird that was killed over the running water.  
And he shall sprinkle upon the one being cleansed from leprosy seven times, and shall declare him clean, and shall let the living bird loose into the open field.  
And the one being cleansed shall wash his clothes, shave off all his hair, and wash himself in water, so that he may be clean; and afterward he shall come into the camp and stay outside his tent for seven days.  
But on the seventh day, he shall shave off all the hair from his head, beard, and eyebrows; he shall shave off all his hair, and he shall wash his clothes, and he shall wash his body in water, and he shall be clean.  
On the eighth day, he shall take two male lambs without blemish, one ewe lamb of the first year without blemish, three-tenths of an ephah of fine flour for a grain offering mixed with oil, and one log of oil.  
And the priest who makes him clean shall present the man to be cleansed and those items before the LORD at the entrance of the tabernacle of meeting.  
And the priest shall take one male lamb and offer it as a trespass offering, along with the log of oil, and wave them as a wave offering before the LORD.  
He shall kill the lamb in the place where he kills the sin offering and the burnt offering, in the holy place; for as the sin offering is for the priest, so is the trespass offering; it is most holy.  
And the priest shall take some of the blood from the trespass offering and put it on the tip of the right ear of the one being cleansed, on the thumb of his right hand, and on the big toe of his right foot.  
And the priest shall take some of the log of oil and pour it into the palm of his own left hand.  
And the priest shall dip his right finger in the oil that is in his left hand and sprinkle some of the oil with his finger seven times before the LORD.  
Of the remaining oil in his hand, the priest shall put it on the tip of the right ear of the one being cleansed, on the thumb of his right hand, and on the big toe of his right foot, on the blood of the trespass offering.  
And the rest of the oil that is in the priest's hand he shall pour on the head of the one being cleansed; and the priest shall make atonement for him before the LORD.  
The priest shall offer the sin offering and make atonement for the one being cleansed from his uncleanness; afterward, he shall kill the burnt offering.  
The priest shall offer the burnt offering and the grain offering on the altar; and the priest shall make atonement for him, and he shall be clean.  
If he is poor and cannot afford so much, then he shall take one lamb for a trespass offering to be waved, to make atonement for him, and one-tenth of an ephah of fine flour mixed with oil for a grain offering, and a log of oil;  
And two turtledoves or two young pigeons, whichever he can afford; one shall be a sin offering, and the other a burnt offering.  
He shall bring them on the eighth day for his cleansing to the priest, to the entrance of the tabernacle of meeting, before the LORD.  
And the priest shall take the lamb of the trespass offering and the log of oil, and the priest shall wave them as a wave offering before the LORD.  
He shall kill the lamb of the trespass offering, and the priest shall take some of the blood from the trespass offering and put it on the tip of the right ear of the one being cleansed, on the thumb of his right hand, and on the big toe of his right foot.  
And the priest shall pour some of the oil into the palm of his own left hand.  
And the priest shall sprinkle with his right finger some of the oil that is in his left hand seven times before the LORD.  
And the priest shall put some of the oil that is in his hand on the tip of the right ear of the one being cleansed, on the thumb of his right hand, and on the big toe of his right foot, on the place of the blood of the trespass offering.  
And the rest of the oil that is in the priest's hand he shall put on the head of the one being cleansed, to make atonement for him before the LORD.  
He shall offer one of the turtledoves or young pigeons, whichever he can afford;  
Whichever he can afford, one for a sin offering and the other for a burnt offering, along with the grain offering; and the priest shall make atonement for the one being cleansed before the LORD.  
This is the law for the one who has the plague of leprosy, whose means are insufficient for his cleansing.  
And the LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying,  
When you come into the land of Canaan, which I give to you as a possession, and I put the plague of leprosy in a house in the land of your possession;  
And the owner of the house shall come and tell the priest, saying, "It seems to me there is a plague in the house."  
Then the priest shall command that they empty the house before the priest goes in to examine the plague, so that all that is in the house does not become unclean; and afterward, the priest shall go in to examine the house.  
He shall examine the plague, and behold, if the plague is in the walls of the house with hollow streaks, greenish or reddish, which appear to be lower than the wall;  
Then the priest shall go out of the house to the door of the house and shut up the house for seven days.  
And the priest shall return on the seventh day and examine it; and behold, if the plague has spread in the walls of the house,  
Then the priest shall command that they take away the stones in which the plague is, and they shall cast them into an unclean place outside the city.  
He shall cause the house to be scraped all around, and they shall pour out the dust that they scrape off outside the city into an unclean place.  
They shall take other stones and put them in place of those stones; and he shall take other mortar and plaster the house.  
If the plague comes back and breaks out in the house after he has taken away the stones, and after he has scraped the house, and after it has been plastered,  
Then the priest shall come and examine it; and behold, if the plague has spread in the house, it is a persistent leprosy in the house; it is unclean.  
He shall break down the house, its stones, its timber, and all the mortar of the house; and he shall carry them outside the city to an unclean place.  
Moreover, anyone who goes into the house while it is shut up shall be unclean until evening.  
And whoever lies in the house shall wash his clothes; and whoever eats in the house shall wash his clothes.  
If the priest comes in and examines it, and behold, the plague has not spread in the house after the house was plastered, then the priest shall pronounce the house clean, because the plague is healed.  
He shall take to cleanse the house two birds, cedar wood, scarlet yarn, and hyssop.  
He shall kill one of the birds in an earthen vessel over running water.  
He shall take the cedar wood, the hyssop, the scarlet yarn, and the living bird, dip them in the blood of the slain bird and in the running water, and sprinkle the house seven times.  
He shall cleanse the house with the blood of the bird, with the running water, with the living bird, with the cedar wood, with the hyssop, and with the scarlet yarn.  
But he shall let the living bird go out of the city into the open fields and make atonement for the house; and it shall be clean.  
This is the law for all kinds of leprosy and scabs,  
And for the leprosy of a garment and of a house,  
And for a rising, for a scab, and for a bright spot:  
To teach when it is unclean and when it is clean; this is the law of leprosy.