Let God arise; let His enemies be scattered; let those who hate Him flee before Him.  
As smoke is driven away, so drive them away; as wax melts before the fire, let the wicked perish in the presence of God.  
But let the righteous be glad; let them rejoice before God; yes, let them rejoice exceedingly.  
Sing unto God; sing praises to His name; extol Him who rides upon the heavens by His name JAH, and rejoice before Him.  
A father to the fatherless and a judge of widows is God in His holy habitation.  
God sets the solitary in families; He brings out those who are bound with chains, but the rebellious dwell in a dry land.  
O God, when You went forth before Your people, when You marched through the wilderness; Selah.  
The earth shook; the heavens also dropped at the presence of God; even Sinai itself was moved at the presence of God, the God of Israel.  
You, O God, sent a plentiful rain, confirming Your inheritance when it was weary.  
Your congregation has dwelt therein; You, O God, have prepared of Your goodness for the poor.  
The Lord gave the word; great was the company of those who published it.  
Kings of armies fled apace, and she who tarried at home divided the spoil.  
Though you have lain among the pots, yet you shall be as the wings of a dove covered with silver, and her feathers with yellow gold.  
When the Almighty scattered kings in it, it was white as snow in Salmon.  
The hill of God is as the hill of Bashan; a high hill as the hill of Bashan.  
Why do you leap, you high hills? This is the hill which God desires to dwell in; yes, the LORD will dwell in it forever.  
The chariots of God are twenty thousand, even thousands of angels; the Lord is among them, as in Sinai, in the holy place.  
You have ascended on high; You have led captivity captive; You have received gifts for men; yes, for the rebellious also, that the LORD God might dwell among them.  
Blessed be the Lord, who daily loads us with benefits, even the God of our salvation. Selah.  
He who is our God is the God of salvation; and to God the Lord belong the issues from death.  
But God shall wound the head of His enemies, and the hairy scalp of those who continue in their trespasses.  
The Lord said, "I will bring again from Bashan; I will bring my people again from the depths of the sea."  
That your foot may be dipped in the blood of your enemies, and the tongue of your dogs in the same.  
They have seen Your goings, O God; even the goings of my God, my King, in the sanctuary.  
The singers went before; the players on instruments followed after; among them were the maidens playing with timbrels.  
Bless God in the congregations; even the Lord, from the fountain of Israel.  
There is little Benjamin with their ruler, the princes of Judah and their council, the princes of Zebulun, and the princes of Naphtali.  
Your God has commanded Your strength; strengthen, O God, that which You have wrought for us.  
Because of Your temple at Jerusalem, kings shall bring presents unto You.  
Rebuke the company of spearmen, the multitude of bulls, with the calves of the people, until everyone submits with pieces of silver; scatter the people that delight in war.  
Princes shall come out of Egypt; Ethiopia shall soon stretch out her hands unto God.  
Sing unto God, you kingdoms of the earth; O sing praises unto the Lord; Selah.  
To Him who rides upon the heavens of heavens, which were of old; behold, He sends out His voice, a mighty voice.  
Ascribe strength unto God; His excellency is over Israel, and His strength is in the clouds.  
O God, You are terrible out of Your holy places; the God of Israel is He who gives strength and power to His people. Blessed be God.