All the commandments that I command you today shall you observe and follow, so that you may live, multiply, and enter and possess the land that the LORD swore to your ancestors.  
And you shall remember all the ways that the LORD your God led you during these forty years in the wilderness, to humble you, to test you, and to know what was in your heart, whether you would keep His commandments or not.  
He humbled you, allowed you to hunger, and fed you with manna, which you did not know, nor did your ancestors; that He might make you understand that man does not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of the LORD.  
Your clothing did not wear out on you, nor did your feet swell during these forty years.  
You should also consider in your heart that, just as a man disciplines his son, so the LORD your God disciplines you.  
Therefore, you shall keep the commandments of the LORD your God, walk in His ways, and revere Him.  
For the LORD your God is bringing you into a good land, a land of brooks of water, of fountains and depths that spring up from valleys and hills;  
A land of wheat, barley, vines, fig trees, and pomegranates; a land of olive oil and honey;  
A land where you will eat bread without scarcity; you will lack nothing in it; a land whose stones are iron, and from whose hills you can dig copper.  
When you have eaten and are satisfied, then you shall bless the LORD your God for the good land He has given you.  
Be careful not to forget the LORD your God by failing to keep His commandments, His judgments, and His statutes, which I command you today.  
Lest when you have eaten and are satisfied, and have built fine houses and lived in them;  
And when your herds and flocks multiply, and your silver and gold increase, and all that you have is multiplied;  
Then your heart may become proud, and you forget the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage;  
Who led you through that great and terrible wilderness, where there were fiery serpents, scorpions, and drought, where there was no water; who brought you water out of the rock of flint;  
Who fed you in the wilderness with manna, which your ancestors did not know, that He might humble you and test you, to do you good in the end;  
And you say in your heart, "My power and the strength of my hand have made this wealth for me."  
But you shall remember the LORD your God, for it is He who gives you the power to get wealth, that He may establish His covenant which He swore to your ancestors, as it is this day.  
And it shall be, if you ever forget the LORD your God and follow other gods, serve them, and worship them, I testify against you today that you shall surely perish.  
Like the nations that the LORD destroys before you, so shall you perish; because you would not obey the voice of the LORD your God.