And it came to pass in the fourth year of Jehoiakim, the son of Josiah, king of Judah, that this word came to Jeremiah from the LORD, saying,
"Take a scroll and write on it all the words that I have spoken to you against Israel, against Judah, and against all the nations, from the day I spoke to you, from the days of Josiah, even to this day."
"It may be that the house of Judah will hear all the evil that I intend to do to them; that they may return every man from his evil way; that I may forgive their iniquity and their sin."
Then Jeremiah called Baruch, the son of Neriah, and Baruch wrote from the mouth of Jeremiah all the words of the LORD that he had spoken to him on a scroll.
And Jeremiah commanded Baruch, saying, "I am confined; I cannot go into the house of the LORD.
Therefore, go and read from the scroll, which you have written from my mouth, the words of the LORD in the ears of the people in the LORD's house on the day of fasting; and you shall also read them in the ears of all Judah who come from their cities."
"It may be that they will present their supplication before the LORD and will return everyone from his evil way; for great is the anger and the fury that the LORD has pronounced against this people."
And Baruch, the son of Neriah, did according to all that Jeremiah the prophet commanded him, reading in the book the words of the LORD in the house of the LORD.
And it came to pass in the fifth year of Jehoiakim, the son of Josiah, king of Judah, in the ninth month, that they proclaimed a fast before the LORD to all the people in Jerusalem and to all the people who came from the cities of Judah to Jerusalem.
Then Baruch read from the book the words of Jeremiah in the house of the LORD, in the chamber of Gemariah, the son of Shaphan, the scribe, in the upper court, at the entry of the new gate of the LORD's house, in the ears of all the people.
When Michaiah, the son of Gemariah, the son of Shaphan, had heard all the words of the LORD from the book,
he went down into the king's house, into the scribe's chamber; and behold, all the princes were sitting there, including Elishama the scribe, Delaiah the son of Shemaiah, Elnathan the son of Achbor, Gemariah the son of Shaphan, Zedekiah the son of Hananiah, and all the princes.
Then Michaiah declared to them all the words that he had heard when Baruch read the book in the ears of the people.
Therefore, all the princes sent Jehudi, the son of Nethaniah, the son of Shelemiah, the son of Cushi, to Baruch, saying, "Take in your hand the scroll from which you have read in the ears of the people, and come." So Baruch, the son of Neriah, took the scroll in his hand and came to them.
And they said to him, "Sit down now and read it in our ears." So Baruch read it in their ears.
Now it came to pass, when they had heard all the words, they were afraid, both one and another, and said to Baruch, "We will surely tell the king all these words."
And they asked Baruch, saying, "Tell us now, how did you write all these words at his mouth?"
Then Baruch answered them, "He pronounced all these words to me with his mouth, and I wrote them with ink in the book."
Then the princes said to Baruch, "Go, hide yourself, you and Jeremiah; and let no man know where you are."
And they went to the king in the court, but they laid up the scroll in the chamber of Elishama, the scribe, and told all the words in the ears of the king.
So the king sent Jehudi to fetch the scroll, and he took it from the chamber of Elishama, the scribe. And Jehudi read it in the ears of the king and in the ears of all the princes who stood beside the king.
Now the king sat in the winter house in the ninth month, and there was a fire on the hearth burning before him.
And it came to pass, that when Jehudi had read three or four columns, he cut it with the penknife and cast it into the fire that was on the hearth, until all the scroll was consumed in the fire that was on the hearth.
Yet they were not afraid, nor did they tear their garments, neither the king nor any of his servants who heard all these words.
Nevertheless, Elnathan, Delaiah, and Gemariah had made intercession to the king that he would not burn the scroll, but he would not listen to them.
But the king commanded Jerahmeel, the son of Hammelech, and Seraiah, the son of Azriel, and Shelemiah, the son of Abdeel, to take Baruch the scribe and Jeremiah the prophet; but the LORD hid them.
Then the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah after the king had burned the scroll and the words which Baruch had written at the mouth of Jeremiah, saying,
"Take again another scroll and write on it all the former words that were in the first scroll, which Jehoiakim, the king of Judah, has burned.
And you shall say to Jehoiakim, king of Judah, 'Thus says the LORD: You have burned this scroll, saying, "Why have you written in it that the king of Babylon shall certainly come and destroy this land and cause to cease from there man and beast?"'
Therefore, thus says the LORD concerning Jehoiakim, king of Judah: 'He shall have none to sit upon the throne of David, and his dead body shall be cast out in the day to the heat and in the night to the frost.
And I will punish him and his seed and his servants for their iniquity; and I will bring upon them, and upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and upon the men of Judah, all the evil that I have pronounced against them; but they did not listen.'"
Then Jeremiah took another scroll and gave it to Baruch, the scribe, the son of Neriah, who wrote on it from the mouth of Jeremiah all the words of the book which Jehoiakim, king of Judah, had burned in the fire; and there were added to them many similar words.
