Listen now to what the LORD declares; rise up, contend before the mountains, and let the hills hear your voice.  
Listen, O mountains, to the LORD's case, and you strong foundations of the earth: for the LORD has a case against His people, and He will argue with Israel.  
O my people, what have I done to you? And how have I burdened you? Testify against me.  
For I brought you up from the land of Egypt and redeemed you from the house of bondage; I sent before you Moses, Aaron, and Miriam.  
O my people, remember what Balak king of Moab plotted, and what Balaam son of Beor answered him from Shittim to Gilgal; that you may understand the righteousness of the LORD.  
With what shall I come before the LORD and bow down before the Most High God? Shall I come before Him with burnt offerings, with calves a year old?  
Will the LORD be pleased with thousands of rams, or with ten thousand rivers of oil? Shall I offer my firstborn for my transgression, the fruit of my body for the sin of my soul?  
He has shown you, O man, what is good; and what does the LORD require of you, but to act justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with your God?  
The LORD's voice calls out to the city, and the wise man will see your name: hear the rod, and who has appointed it.  
Are there still treasures of wickedness in the house of the wicked, and the scant measure that is detestable?  
Shall I count them pure with wicked balances, and with a bag of deceitful weights?  
For the wealthy among them are full of violence, and the inhabitants have spoken lies; their tongues are deceitful in their mouths.  
Therefore, I will also make you sick by striking you, making you desolate because of your sins.  
You will eat, but not be satisfied; your casting down will be in your midst; you will take hold, but will not deliver; and what you deliver I will give up to the sword.  
You will sow, but you will not reap; you will tread the olives, but will not anoint yourself with oil; you will make sweet wine, but will not drink wine.  
For the statutes of Omri are observed, and all the works of the house of Ahab, and you walk in their counsels; therefore, I will make you a desolation, and the inhabitants a hissing: thus, you shall bear the reproach of my people.