After these events, Jesus revealed himself again to the disciples at the Sea of Tiberias; and in this manner, he showed himself.
Together were Simon Peter, Thomas (who is called Didymus), Nathanael from Cana in Galilee, the sons of Zebedee, and two other disciples.
Simon Peter said to them, "I am going fishing." They replied, "We will go with you." They went out and immediately got into a boat; and that night they caught nothing.
But when morning came, Jesus stood on the shore; however, the disciples did not realize it was Jesus.
Then Jesus called out to them, "Children, do you have any food?" They answered him, "No."
He said to them, "Cast the net on the right side of the boat, and you will find some." So they cast the net, and now they were unable to haul it in because of the large number of fish.
Therefore, the disciple whom Jesus loved said to Peter, "It is the Lord." When Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he put on his outer garment (for he was naked) and jumped into the sea.
The other disciples followed in the small boat, for they were not far from shore, about two hundred cubits, dragging the net full of fish.
As soon as they landed, they saw a fire of coals there, with fish laid on it, and bread.
Jesus said to them, "Bring some of the fish you have just caught."
Simon Peter went aboard and dragged the net to shore, full of large fish, one hundred fifty-three in total; and although there were so many, the net was not torn.
Jesus said to them, "Come and have breakfast." None of the disciples dared to ask him, "Who are you?" knowing that it was the Lord.
Jesus came, took the bread, and gave it to them, and he did the same with the fish.
This was now the third time Jesus appeared to his disciples after he was raised from the dead.
When they had finished eating, Jesus said to Simon Peter, "Simon, son of John, do you love me more than these?" He answered, "Yes, Lord; you know that I love you." Jesus said to him, "Feed my lambs."
Jesus asked him a second time, "Simon, son of John, do you love me?" He answered, "Yes, Lord; you know that I love you." Jesus said to him, "Take care of my sheep."
He asked him a third time, "Simon, son of John, do you love me?" Peter was hurt because Jesus asked him the third time, "Do you love me?" He said, "Lord, you know all things; you know that I love you." Jesus said to him, "Feed my sheep."
Truly, truly, I tell you, when you were younger, you dressed yourself and went where you wanted; but when you are old, you will stretch out your hands, and someone else will dress you and lead you where you do not want to go.
Jesus said this to indicate the kind of death by which Peter would glorify God. Then he said to him, "Follow me!"
Peter turned and saw the disciple whom Jesus loved following them. This was the one who had leaned back against Jesus at the supper and had said, "Lord, who is going to betray you?"
When Peter saw him, he asked, "Lord, what about him?"
Jesus answered, "If I want him to remain alive until I return, what is that to you? You must follow me."
Because of this, the rumor spread among the believers that this disciple would not die; but Jesus did not say that he would not die; he only said, "If I want him to remain alive until I return, what is that to you?"
This is the disciple who testifies to these things and who wrote them down. We know that his testimony is true.
And there are also many other things that Jesus did, which, if every one of them were written down, I suppose that even the whole world would not have room for the books that would be written. Amen.
