Men, brothers, and fathers, listen to my defense that I present to you now.  
(And when they heard him speaking in the Hebrew language, they became even more silent; and he said,)  
I am truly a man who is a Jew, born in Tarsus, a city in Cilicia, but raised in this city at the feet of Gamaliel, and educated in the perfect way of the law of our ancestors, being zealous for God, just as you all are today.  
And I persecuted this way to the point of death, binding and delivering both men and women into prisons.  
As the high priest and all the council of elders can testify, I received letters from them to the brethren and went to Damascus to bring those who were there bound to Jerusalem for punishment.  
As I was on my way and nearing Damascus around noon, suddenly a great light shone from heaven all around me.  
I fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to me, "Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?"  
I answered, "Who are you, Lord?" And he said to me, "I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom you are persecuting."  
Those who were with me indeed saw the light and were afraid, but they did not hear the voice of the one who spoke to me.  
I asked, "What shall I do, Lord?" And the Lord said to me, "Arise and go into Damascus; there you will be told all things that are appointed for you to do."  
When I could not see because of the glory of that light, being led by the hand of those who were with me, I came into Damascus.  
A man named Ananias, a devout man according to the law, well spoken of by all the Jews living there,  
came to me, stood by me, and said, "Brother Saul, receive your sight." At that very hour, I looked up at him.  
He said, "The God of our fathers has chosen you to know his will, to see the Just One, and to hear the voice of his mouth.  
For you will be his witness to all men of what you have seen and heard.  
And now, why do you wait? Arise, be baptized, and wash away your sins, calling on the name of the Lord."  
It happened that when I returned to Jerusalem, while I was praying in the temple, I fell into a trance;  
and I saw him saying to me, "Make haste, and get out of Jerusalem quickly, for they will not accept your testimony concerning me."  
I replied, "Lord, they know that I imprisoned and beat those who believed in you in every synagogue.  
And when the blood of your martyr Stephen was shed, I was standing by, consenting to his death, and guarding the clothes of those who killed him."  
He said to me, "Depart, for I will send you far away to the Gentiles."  
They listened to him until this word, and then they raised their voices and said, "Away with such a fellow from the earth, for he is not fit to live."  
As they shouted and threw off their cloaks and tossed dust into the air,  
the chief captain ordered him to be brought into the barracks and commanded that he be examined by scourging, to find out why they were shouting against him.  
As they bound him with thongs, Paul said to the centurion who stood by, "Is it lawful for you to scourge a man who is a Roman citizen and uncondemned?"  
When the centurion heard this, he went and told the chief captain, saying, "Take care what you do, for this man is a Roman."  
Then the chief captain came and asked him, "Tell me, are you a Roman?" He said, "Yes."  
The chief captain answered, "I acquired this citizenship with a great sum of money." Paul said, "But I was born a citizen."  
Immediately, those who were about to examine him withdrew from him, and the chief captain was also afraid after he realized that he was a Roman citizen and because he had bound him.  
The next day, wanting to know for certain why he was accused by the Jews, he released him from his bonds and commanded the chief priests and all their council to appear, and brought Paul down and set him before them.