Here is a revised version of each line:
I declare that the heir, as long as he remains a child, is no different from a servant, even though he is the lord of all;
Instead, he is under the care of tutors and governors until the time set by his father.
Similarly, we, when we were children, were enslaved by the basic principles of the world.
But when the fullness of time came, God sent forth His Son, born of a woman, born under the law,
To redeem those who were under the law, so that we might receive the adoption as sons.
And because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of His Son into your hearts, calling out, "Abba, Father."
Therefore, you are no longer a servant, but a son; and if a son, then an heir of God through Christ.
However, at that time, when you did not know God, you served those who by nature are not gods.
But now that you have come to know God, or rather are known by God, how can you turn back to the weak and worthless elements, desiring to be enslaved again?
You observe special days, months, seasons, and years.
I am afraid for you, lest I have labored over you in vain.
Brothers, I urge you to be like me, for I am like you: you have not wronged me at all.
You know that it was because of a physical ailment that I preached the gospel to you at first.
And my trial, which was in my flesh, you did not despise or reject; instead, you welcomed me as an angel of God, just as you would have received Christ Jesus.
Where then is that sense of blessing you once had? For I testify that, if possible, you would have torn out your eyes and given them to me.
Have I now become your enemy by telling you the truth?
They zealously seek you, but for no good; yes, they want to exclude you so that you may seek them.
But it is good to be zealous in a good thing always, and not just when I am present with you.
My little children, for whom I am again in the pains of childbirth until Christ is formed in you,
I wish I could be with you now and change my tone, for I am perplexed about you.
Tell me, you who desire to be under the law, do you not listen to the law?
For it is written that Abraham had two sons, one by a slave woman and the other by a free woman.
But the son of the slave woman was born according to the flesh, while the son of the free woman was born through promise.
These things are an allegory: for these are the two covenants; one from Mount Sinai, which gives birth to bondage, which is Hagar.
For Hagar is Mount Sinai in Arabia and corresponds to the present Jerusalem, for she is in bondage with her children.
But the Jerusalem above is free, and she is our mother.
For it is written, "Rejoice, O barren one who does not bear; break forth and cry, you who are not in labor, for the desolate has many more children than she who has a husband."
Now we, brothers, like Isaac, are children of promise.
But just as at that time he who was born according to the flesh persecuted him who was born according to the Spirit, so also it is now.
But what does the Scripture say? "Cast out the slave woman and her son, for the son of the slave woman shall not inherit with the son of the free woman."
So, brothers, we are not children of the slave woman, but of the free woman.
