Keep your foot when you go to the house of God, and be more ready to listen than to offer the sacrifice of fools, for they do not realize they are doing wrong.  
Do not be quick with your mouth, and let not your heart be hasty to speak anything before God, for God is in heaven, and you are on earth; therefore, let your words be few.  
For a dream comes through the abundance of business, and a fool's voice is recognized by the multitude of words.  
When you make a vow to God, do not delay in fulfilling it, for He takes no pleasure in fools; pay what you have vowed.  
It is better not to vow than to vow and not fulfill it.  
Do not let your mouth lead you into sin, and do not say before the angel that it was a mistake; why should God be angry at your voice and destroy the work of your hands?  
For in the multitude of dreams and many words, there are also various vanities; but fear God.  
If you see the oppression of the poor and the violent perversion of justice in a province, do not be amazed at the matter, for there is one higher than the highest who observes, and there are others higher than they.  
Moreover, the profit of the earth is for all; even the king is served by the field.  
He who loves silver will not be satisfied with silver, nor he who loves abundance with increase; this is also vanity.  
When goods increase, those who consume them increase as well; and what benefit is there to the owners, except to gaze upon them?  
The sleep of a laboring man is sweet, whether he eats little or much, but the abundance of the rich will not allow him to sleep.  
There is a grievous evil that I have seen under the sun: riches kept for the owners to their detriment.  
But those riches perish through misfortune, and if he begets a son, there is nothing in his hand.  
As he came from his mother's womb, he shall return as he came, taking nothing of his labor that he may carry away in his hand.  
And this is also a grievous evil: that in all respects, as he came, so shall he go; and what profit does he have who has labored for the wind?  
All his days he eats in darkness, and he has much sorrow and anger with his sickness.  
Behold what I have seen: it is good and fitting for one to eat and drink and enjoy the good of all his labor under the sun during the days of his life, which God gives him, for it is his portion.  
To every man to whom God has given riches and wealth, and has granted him the power to enjoy them, to take his portion, and to rejoice in his labor; this is the gift of God.  
For he will not often remember the days of his life, because God keeps him occupied with the joy of his heart.