And it was reported to Joab, "Look, the king is weeping and mourning for Absalom."  
And the victory that day turned into mourning for all the people, for they heard that day how the king was grieving for his son.  
The people stealthily returned to the city that day, like those who are ashamed and flee in battle.  
But the king covered his face and cried out with a loud voice, "O my son Absalom, O Absalom, my son, my son!"  
Joab entered the king's house and said, "You have shamed the faces of all your servants today, who have saved your life, and the lives of your sons, daughters, wives, and concubines.  
You love your enemies and hate your friends. For you have declared today that you care neither for princes nor servants; for I perceive that if Absalom had lived and all of us had died today, it would have pleased you.  
Now, therefore, arise, go out, and speak kindly to your servants; for I swear by the LORD, if you do not go out, not one will stay with you this night, and that will be worse for you than all the evil that has befallen you from your youth until now."  
Then the king arose and sat at the gate. They told all the people, "Behold, the king sits at the gate." And all the people came before the king, for Israel had fled, each man to his tent.  
All the people were in conflict throughout all the tribes of Israel, saying, "The king saved us from the hand of our enemies and delivered us from the hand of the Philistines; and now he has fled from the land because of Absalom.  
And Absalom, whom we anointed over us, is dead in battle. Now, why do you not speak a word about bringing the king back?"  
King David sent to Zadok and Abiathar the priests, saying, "Speak to the elders of Judah, saying, 'Why are you the last to bring the king back to his house? For the speech of all Israel has come to the king, even to his house.'  
You are my brothers, my bones and my flesh; why then are you the last to bring back the king?"  
And say to Amasa, "Are you not of my bone and of my flesh? God do so to me, and more also, if you are not captain of the host before me continually in place of Joab."  
He won the hearts of all the men of Judah, as if they were one man, so that they sent this word to the king: "Return, you and all your servants."  
So the king returned and came to the Jordan. And Judah came to Gilgal to meet the king and to conduct him over the Jordan.  
Shimei the son of Gera, a Benjamite from Bahurim, hurried and came down with the men of Judah to meet King David.  
There were a thousand men of Benjamin with him, and Ziba, the servant of the house of Saul, with his fifteen sons and twenty servants; they crossed over the Jordan before the king.  
A ferry boat went over to carry the king's household and to do what he thought best. Shimei the son of Gera fell down before the king as he crossed over the Jordan,  
And said to the king, "Let not my lord impute iniquity to me, nor remember what your servant did perversely the day my lord the king went out of Jerusalem; do not take it to heart.  
For your servant knows that I have sinned; therefore, behold, I am the first this day of all the house of Joseph to come down to meet my lord the king."  
But Abishai the son of Zeruiah answered and said, "Should not Shimei be put to death for this, because he cursed the LORD's anointed?"  
And David said, "What do I have to do with you, sons of Zeruiah, that you should be adversaries to me today? Should any man be put to death in Israel today? For do I not know that I am king over Israel today?"  
Therefore, the king said to Shimei, "You shall not die." And the king swore to him.  
Mephibosheth the son of Saul came down to meet the king; he had neither dressed his feet, trimmed his beard, nor washed his clothes from the day the king departed until the day he returned in peace.  
When he came to Jerusalem to meet the king, the king said to him, "Why did you not go with me, Mephibosheth?"  
And he answered, "My lord, O king, my servant deceived me; for your servant said, 'I will saddle a donkey for myself, that I may ride on it and go with the king,' because your servant is lame.  
He has slandered your servant to my lord the king; but my lord the king is like an angel of God; do therefore what is good in your eyes.  
For all my father's house were but dead men before my lord the king; yet you set your servant among those who eat at your own table. What right do I have to cry any more to the king?"  
And the king said to him, "Why do you speak any more of your matters? I have said, 'You and Ziba divide the land.'"  
And Mephibosheth said to the king, "Yes, let him take all, forasmuch as my lord the king has come again in peace to his own house."  
Barzillai the Gileadite came down from Rogelim and went over the Jordan with the king to conduct him over the Jordan.  
Now Barzillai was a very old man, eighty years old; he had provided the king with sustenance while he lay at Mahanaim, for he was a very great man.  
The king said to Barzillai, "Come over with me, and I will feed you with me in Jerusalem."  
Barzillai said to the king, "How long have I to live, that I should go up with the king to Jerusalem?  
I am this day eighty years old; can I discern between good and evil? Can your servant taste what I eat or drink? Can I hear any more the voice of singing men and singing women? Why then should your servant be a burden to my lord the king?  
Your servant will go a little way over the Jordan with the king; why should the king recompense me with such a reward?  
Let your servant, I pray you, turn back again, that I may die in my own city and be buried by the grave of my father and mother. But behold, your servant Chimham; let him go over with my lord the king, and do to him what seems good to you."  
The king answered, "Chimham shall go over with me, and I will do to him what seems good to you; and whatever you require of me, that will I do for you."  
All the people crossed over the Jordan. When the king had crossed over, he kissed Barzillai and blessed him; and he returned to his own place.  
Then the king went on to Gilgal, and Chimham went on with him; all the people of Judah conducted the king, and also half the people of Israel.  
And behold, all the men of Israel came to the king and said to him, "Why have our brothers, the men of Judah, stolen you away and brought the king and his household and all David's men with him over the Jordan?"  
All the men of Judah answered the men of Israel, "Because the king is near of kin to us; why then be angry about this matter? Have we eaten at all at the king's expense? Or has he given us any gift?"  
The men of Israel answered the men of Judah and said, "We have ten parts in the king, and we have also more right in David than you; why then did you despise us, that our advice should not be first had in bringing back our king?" And the words of the men of Judah were fiercer than the words of the men of Israel.