And Moses replied, "But, behold, they will not believe me or listen to my voice; they will say, 'The LORD has not appeared to you.'"
The LORD asked him, "What is that in your hand?" He answered, "A rod."
The LORD instructed him, "Throw it on the ground." He threw it down, and it became a serpent; Moses fled from it.
The LORD said to Moses, "Reach out your hand and take it by the tail." He reached out, caught it, and it turned back into a rod in his hand.
"This is so they may believe that the LORD God of their fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has appeared to you."
The LORD further instructed him, "Now put your hand into your bosom." He did so, and when he took it out, it was leprous like snow.
The LORD said, "Put your hand back into your bosom." He did, and when he pulled it out again, it was restored to normal, like the rest of his flesh.
"If they do not believe you or heed the voice of the first sign, they will believe the voice of the latter sign."
"If they do not believe even these two signs or listen to your voice, then take some water from the river and pour it on the dry ground; the water you take from the river will become blood on the dry ground."
Moses said to the LORD, "O my LORD, I am not eloquent, neither in the past nor since you have spoken to your servant; I am slow of speech and slow of tongue."
The LORD replied, "Who made man's mouth? Who makes the mute, the deaf, the seeing, or the blind? Is it not I, the LORD?"
"Now go, and I will be with your mouth and teach you what you shall say."
Moses said, "O my LORD, please send someone else."
The LORD's anger was kindled against Moses, and He said, "Is not Aaron the Levite your brother? I know he can speak well. He is coming to meet you, and when he sees you, he will be glad in his heart."
"You shall speak to him and put words in his mouth; I will be with your mouth and with his mouth, and I will teach you both what you shall do."
"He shall be your spokesman to the people; he shall be, even he shall be to you instead of a mouth, and you shall be to him instead of God."
"Take this rod in your hand, with which you shall perform signs."
Moses went back to Jethro, his father-in-law, and said, "Please let me go back to my brothers in Egypt to see if they are still alive." Jethro replied, "Go in peace."
The LORD said to Moses in Midian, "Go back to Egypt, for all the men who sought your life are dead."
Moses took his wife and sons, placed them on a donkey, and returned to the land of Egypt, taking the rod of God in his hand.
The LORD said to Moses, "When you return to Egypt, see that you perform all those wonders before Pharaoh, which I have put in your hand; but I will harden his heart, so that he will not let the people go."
"Say to Pharaoh, 'Thus says the LORD: Israel is my son, my firstborn.'"
"I say to you, 'Let my son go, that he may serve me; if you refuse to let him go, behold, I will kill your son, your firstborn.'"
On the way at the inn, the LORD met him and sought to kill him.
Then Zipporah took a sharp stone, cut off the foreskin of her son, and threw it at his feet, saying, "Surely you are a bloody husband to me."
So the LORD let him go; then she said, "You are a bloody husband because of the circumcision."
The LORD said to Aaron, "Go into the wilderness to meet Moses." He went and met him at the mountain of God and kissed him.
Moses told Aaron all the words of the LORD who had sent him and all the signs he had commanded him to perform.
Moses and Aaron gathered all the elders of the children of Israel together.
Aaron spoke all the words the LORD had spoken to Moses and performed the signs in the sight of the people.
The people believed; when they heard that the LORD had visited the children of Israel and had seen their affliction, they bowed their heads and worshipped.