Samson went to Gaza, where he encountered a harlot and engaged with her.
The Gazites were informed, saying, "Samson has come here." They surrounded him and waited for him all night at the city gate, remaining silent until morning, when they planned to kill him.
Samson lay until midnight, then arose, took the city gate doors and the two posts, and carried them away, bar and all, placing them on his shoulders and bringing them to the top of a hill near Hebron.
Later, he fell in love with a woman in the valley of Sorek named Delilah.
The lords of the Philistines approached her, saying, "Entice him and discover the source of his great strength, so we can overpower him and bind him to afflict him; we will each give you eleven hundred pieces of silver."
Delilah asked Samson, "Please tell me the source of your great strength and how you could be bound to be subdued."
Samson replied, "If they bind me with seven fresh bowstrings that have not been dried, I will become weak like any other man."
The lords of the Philistines brought her seven fresh bowstrings, and she bound him with them.
Men were lying in wait in her chamber. She said to him, "The Philistines are upon you, Samson." He broke the bowstrings as easily as a thread of flax is broken by fire, so his strength remained unknown.
Delilah said to Samson, "You have mocked me and told me lies. Now, please tell me how you could be bound."
He answered, "If they bind me with new ropes that have never been used, I will become weak like any other man."
Delilah took new ropes and bound him, then said, "The Philistines are upon you, Samson." There were men lying in wait in the chamber, but he broke the ropes off his arms like a thread.
Delilah said to Samson, "You have mocked me and told me lies. Tell me how you could be bound." He replied, "If you weave the seven locks of my hair into a web."
She fastened his hair with a pin and said, "The Philistines are upon you, Samson." He woke from his sleep, pulled out the pin and the web, and escaped.
She asked him, "How can you say you love me when your heart is not with me? You have mocked me three times and have not revealed the source of your strength."
As she pressed him daily with her words and urged him, his soul was vexed to the point of death.
Finally, he revealed all his heart to her, saying, "No razor has ever touched my head, for I have been a Nazarite to God from my mother's womb. If I am shaved, my strength will leave me, and I will become weak like any other man."
When Delilah realized he had told her everything, she called for the lords of the Philistines, saying, "Come up this time, for he has revealed all his heart to me." The lords of the Philistines came with money in hand.
She made him sleep on her knees, called for a man, and had him shave off the seven locks of his hair. She began to afflict him, and his strength left him.
She said, "The Philistines are upon you, Samson." He woke from his sleep and thought, "I will go out as before and shake myself free." He did not realize that the LORD had departed from him.
The Philistines seized him, gouged out his eyes, brought him down to Gaza, and bound him with bronze shackles; he ground grain in the prison.
However, his hair began to grow back after it had been shaved.
The lords of the Philistines gathered to offer a great sacrifice to their god Dagon and to celebrate, saying, "Our god has delivered Samson, our enemy, into our hands."
When the people saw him, they praised their god, saying, "Our god has delivered our enemy into our hands, the destroyer of our land, who has killed many of us."
As their hearts were merry, they said, "Call for Samson, so he can entertain us." They brought him out of the prison, and he entertained them, standing between the pillars.
Samson said to the boy holding his hand, "Let me feel the pillars on which the house stands, so I can lean against them."
The house was filled with men and women, and all the lords of the Philistines were there, with about three thousand people on the roof watching Samson entertain them.
Samson called out to the LORD, saying, "O Lord God, remember me, I pray, and strengthen me just this once, O God, that I may be avenged on the Philistines for my two eyes."
He grasped the two middle pillars on which the house rested, one with his right hand and the other with his left.
Samson said, "Let me die with the Philistines." He pushed with all his might, and the house fell on the lords and all the people inside. The number of those he killed at his death was greater than those he had killed during his life.
Afterward, his brothers and all his father's household came down, took him, and buried him between Zorah and Eshtaol in the tomb of Manoah, his father. He judged Israel for twenty years.
