Now these were the sons of David, who were born to him in Hebron: the firstborn Amnon, by Ahinoam the Jezreelitess; the second Daniel, by Abigail the Carmelitess.
The third was Absalom, the son of Maachah, the daughter of Talmai, king of Geshur; the fourth was Adonijah, the son of Haggith.
The fifth was Shephatiah, by Abital; the sixth was Ithream, by Eglah, his wife.
These six were born to him in Hebron; and there he reigned for seven years and six months, and in Jerusalem, he reigned for thirty-three years.
And these were born to him in Jerusalem: Shimea, Shobab, Nathan, and Solomon, four, by Bathshua, the daughter of Ammiel.
Ibhar, Elishama, and Eliphelet were also born to him,
And Nogah, Nepheg, and Japhia,
And Elishama, Eliada, and Eliphelet, nine in total.
These were all the sons of David, besides the sons of the concubines, and Tamar, their sister.
And Solomon's son was Rehoboam, Abia his son, Asa his son, Jehoshaphat his son,
Joram his son, Ahaziah his son, Joash his son,
Amaziah his son, Azariah his son, Jotham his son,
Ahaz his son, Hezekiah his son, Manasseh his son,
Amon his son, Josiah his son.
And the sons of Josiah were: the firstborn Johanan, the second Jehoiakim, the third Zedekiah, the fourth Shallum.
And the sons of Jehoiakim: Jeconiah his son, Zedekiah his son.
And the sons of Jeconiah were: Assir, Salathiel his son,
Malchiram, Pedaiah, Shenazar, Jecamiah, Hoshama, and Nedabiah.
And the sons of Pedaiah were: Zerubbabel and Shimei; and the sons of Zerubbabel were: Meshullam, Hananiah, and Shelomith, their sister.
And Hashubah, Ohel, Berechiah, Hasadiah, and Jushabhesed, five in total.
And the sons of Hananiah were: Pelatiah and Jesaiah; the sons of Rephaiah, the sons of Arnan, the sons of Obadiah, and the sons of Shechaniah.
And the sons of Shechaniah were: Shemaiah; and the sons of Shemaiah were: Hattush, Igeal, Bariah, Neariah, and Shaphat, six in total.
And the sons of Neariah were: Elioenai, Hezekiah, and Azrikam, three.
And the sons of Elioenai were: Hodaiah, Eliashib, Pelaiah, Akkub, Johanan, Dalaiah, and Anani, seven in total.
