Woe to the pastors who destroy and scatter the sheep of my pasture! says the LORD.  
Therefore, thus says the LORD God of Israel against the pastors who feed my people: You have scattered my flock and driven them away, and have not visited them. Behold, I will bring upon you the consequences of your actions, says the LORD.  
I will gather the remnant of my flock from all the countries where I have driven them and will bring them back to their folds; they will be fruitful and multiply.  
I will appoint shepherds over them who will feed them; they will no longer fear or be dismayed, nor will they lack anything, says the LORD.  
Behold, the days are coming, says the LORD, when I will raise up for David a righteous Branch; a King will reign and prosper, executing judgment and justice on the earth.  
In his days, Judah will be saved, and Israel will dwell securely; this is the name by which he will be called, THE LORD OUR RIGHTEOUSNESS.  
Therefore, behold, the days are coming, says the LORD, when they will no longer say, "The LORD lives, who brought the children of Israel up from the land of Egypt."  
But they will say, "The LORD lives, who brought and led the descendants of the house of Israel from the north country and from all the countries where I had driven them," and they will dwell in their own land.  
My heart is broken within me because of the prophets; all my bones tremble; I am like a drunken man, like a man overcome by wine, because of the LORD and the words of his holiness.  
For the land is full of adulterers; the land mourns because of swearing; the pleasant places of the wilderness are dried up, and their course is evil, and their might is not right.  
Both prophet and priest are profane; indeed, in my house, I have found their wickedness, says the LORD.  
Therefore, their way will be to them like slippery paths in the darkness; they will be driven and fall in them, for I will bring evil upon them, even the year of their visitation, says the LORD.  
I have seen folly in the prophets of Samaria; they prophesied by Baal and caused my people Israel to err.  
I have also seen a horrible thing in the prophets of Jerusalem: they commit adultery and walk in lies; they strengthen the hands of evildoers, so that no one turns back from his wickedness; they are all like Sodom to me, and the inhabitants like Gomorrah.  
Therefore, thus says the LORD of hosts concerning the prophets: Behold, I will feed them with wormwood and make them drink the water of gall, for from the prophets of Jerusalem, profaneness has gone forth into all the land.  
Thus says the LORD of hosts: Do not listen to the words of the prophets who prophesy to you; they make you vain; they speak visions from their own hearts, not from the mouth of the LORD.  
They still say to those who despise me, "The LORD has said, 'You shall have peace,'" and they say to everyone who walks after the imagination of his own heart, "No evil shall come upon you."  
For who has stood in the counsel of the LORD and has perceived and heard his word? Who has marked his word and heard it?  
Behold, a whirlwind of the LORD has gone forth in fury, even a grievous whirlwind; it will fall grievously upon the head of the wicked.  
The anger of the LORD will not return until he has executed and performed the thoughts of his heart; in the latter days, you will understand it perfectly.  
I have not sent these prophets, yet they ran; I have not spoken to them, yet they prophesied.  
But if they had stood in my counsel and caused my people to hear my words, then they would have turned them from their evil way and from the evil of their doings.  
Am I a God who is near, says the LORD, and not a God who is far off?  
Can anyone hide in secret places that I cannot see him? says the LORD. Do I not fill heaven and earth? says the LORD.  
I have heard what the prophets said, who prophesy lies in my name, saying, "I have dreamed, I have dreamed."  
How long will this be in the heart of the prophets who prophesy lies? Yes, they are prophets of the deceit of their own hearts,  
Who think to make my people forget my name by their dreams, which they tell to each man his neighbor, as their fathers have forgotten my name for Baal.  
The prophet who has a dream, let him tell a dream; and he who has my word, let him speak my word faithfully. What is the chaff to the wheat? says the LORD.  
Is not my word like fire? says the LORD; and like a hammer that breaks the rock in pieces?  
Therefore, behold, I am against the prophets, says the LORD, who steal my words, every one from his neighbor.  
Behold, I am against the prophets, says the LORD, who use their tongues and say, "He says."  
Behold, I am against those who prophesy false dreams, says the LORD, and tell them, causing my people to err by their lies and by their lightness; yet I did not send them or command them; therefore, they will not profit this people at all, says the LORD.  
And when this people, or the prophet, or a priest, asks you, saying, "What is the burden of the LORD?" you shall then say to them, "What burden? I will even forsake you, says the LORD."  
As for the prophet, the priest, and the people who say, "The burden of the LORD," I will punish that man and his house.  
Thus, you shall say to each neighbor and each brother, "What has the LORD answered? What has the LORD spoken?"  
And you shall mention the burden of the LORD no more, for every man's word will be his burden; for you have perverted the words of the living God, the LORD of hosts, our God.  
Thus you shall say to the prophet, "What has the LORD answered you? What has the LORD spoken?"  
But since you say, "The burden of the LORD," therefore, thus says the LORD: Because you say this word, "The burden of the LORD," and I have sent to you, saying, "You shall not say, 'The burden of the LORD,'"  
Therefore, behold, I, even I, will utterly forget you, and I will forsake you and the city that I gave you and your fathers, and cast you out of my presence.  
And I will bring upon you an everlasting reproach and a perpetual shame that will not be forgotten.