Woe to the bloody city! It is filled with lies and robbery; the prey does not depart.  
The sound of a whip, the clatter of wheels, the prancing of horses, and the thundering of chariots.  
The horseman raises both the shining sword and the gleaming spear: there is a multitude of slain, a great number of corpses; there is no end to their bodies; they stumble over their dead.  
Because of the multitude of the whoredoms of the beautiful harlot, the mistress of witchcrafts, who sells nations through her whoredoms and families through her witchcrafts.  
Behold, I am against you, says the LORD of hosts; I will lift your skirts over your face, and I will expose your nakedness to the nations and your shame to the kingdoms.  
I will pour out abominable filth upon you, make you vile, and set you as a spectacle for all to see.  
And it shall come to pass that all who look upon you shall flee from you, saying, "Nineveh is laid waste: who will mourn for her? Where shall I find comforters for you?"  
Are you better than populous No, which was situated among the rivers, surrounded by waters, whose rampart was the sea, and whose wall was from the sea?  
Ethiopia and Egypt were her strength, and it was boundless; Put and Lubim were her allies.  
Yet she was carried away, she went into captivity; her young children were dashed to pieces at the corners of the streets; they cast lots for her honorable men, and all her great men were bound in chains.  
You too shall be drunk; you shall hide, and you shall seek strength because of the enemy.  
All your strongholds shall be like fig trees with ripened figs: if shaken, they will fall into the mouth of the eater.  
Behold, your people in the midst of you are women; the gates of your land shall be wide open to your enemies: fire shall consume your bars.  
Draw water for the siege, fortify your strongholds: go into the clay, and tread the mortar, make strong the brick kiln.  
There the fire shall consume you; the sword shall cut you off, it shall devour you like the cankerworm: make yourself as numerous as the cankerworm, make yourself as many as the locusts.  
You have multiplied your merchants more than the stars of heaven: the cankerworm spoils and flies away.  
Your crowned ones are like locusts, and your captains like great grasshoppers, which camp in the hedges on a cold day, but when the sun rises, they flee away, and their place is unknown.  
Your shepherds slumber, O king of Assyria; your nobles lie in the dust; your people are scattered on the mountains, and no one gathers them.  
There is no healing for your bruise; your wound is grievous: all who hear the news of you shall clap their hands over you; for upon whom has not your wickedness continually passed?