The proverbs of Solomon: A wise son brings joy to his father, but a foolish son brings grief to his mother.
Wealth gained through wickedness is of no benefit, but righteousness saves from death.
The LORD will not allow the righteous to go hungry, but He will reject the possessions of the wicked.
Those who are lazy will become poor, but the diligent will prosper.
A wise son gathers during the summer, while one who sleeps during harvest brings shame.
Blessings rest on the head of the righteous, but violence conceals the words of the wicked.
The memory of the righteous is cherished, but the name of the wicked will decay.
The wise in heart accept instruction, but a talkative fool will stumble.
Those who walk with integrity walk securely, but those who twist their paths will be exposed.
Winking with the eye brings sorrow, but a talkative fool will stumble.
The words of a righteous person are a source of life, but violence conceals the words of the wicked.
Hatred stirs up conflict, but love covers all offenses.
Wisdom is found in the lips of the understanding, but a fool deserves punishment.
Wise individuals store up knowledge, but the words of the foolish lead to destruction.
The wealth of the rich is like a fortified city, while the poverty of the poor leads to their downfall.
The work of the righteous leads to life, while the actions of the wicked lead to sin.
Those who heed instruction are on the path of life, but those who reject correction go astray.
He who conceals hatred with deceitful words and spreads slander is a fool.
In a multitude of words, sin is inevitable, but the wise person restrains their speech.
The tongue of the righteous is like precious silver, while the heart of the wicked is of little value.
The lips of the righteous nourish many, but fools perish for lack of wisdom.
The blessing of the LORD brings wealth without adding sorrow.
To a fool, mischief is like a game, but a wise person possesses understanding.
The fear of the wicked will come upon them, but the desires of the righteous will be fulfilled.
As the whirlwind passes, the wicked are no more, but the righteous stand firm forever.
As vinegar is to the teeth and smoke is to the eyes, so is the sluggard to those who send him.
The fear of the LORD extends life, but the years of the wicked are cut short.
The hope of the righteous brings joy, but the expectation of the wicked will be dashed.
The way of the LORD is a source of strength for the upright, but destruction awaits those who practice iniquity.
The righteous will never be uprooted, but the wicked will not dwell in the land.
The mouth of the righteous brings forth wisdom, but the perverse tongue will be silenced.
The lips of the righteous know what is appropriate, but the mouth of the wicked speaks perversity.
