And it came to pass, when humanity began to multiply on the face of the earth, and daughters were born to them,  
That the sons of God saw that the daughters of men were beautiful; and they took wives for themselves from all whom they chose.  
And the LORD said, My spirit shall not always strive with humanity, for they are also flesh: yet their days shall be one hundred and twenty years.  
There were giants on the earth in those days; and also afterward, when the sons of God came to the daughters of men, and they bore children to them, these became mighty men of old, men of renown.  
And God saw that the wickedness of humanity was great on the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of their hearts was only evil continually.  
And it grieved the LORD that He had made humanity on the earth, and it saddened Him at His heart.  
And the LORD said, I will destroy humanity whom I have created from the face of the earth; both humans, and beasts, and creeping things, and the birds of the air; for I regret that I have made them.  
But Noah found favor in the eyes of the LORD.  
These are the generations of Noah: Noah was a righteous man and blameless in his generations, and Noah walked with God.  
And Noah had three sons: Shem, Ham, and Japheth.  
The earth was also corrupt in the sight of God, and the earth was filled with violence.  
And God looked upon the earth, and behold, it was corrupt; for all flesh had corrupted its way upon the earth.  
And God said to Noah, The end of all flesh has come before me; for the earth is filled with violence because of them; and behold, I will destroy them along with the earth.  
Make for yourself an ark of gopher wood; you shall make rooms in the ark, and you shall coat it inside and out with pitch.  
And this is how you shall make it: The length of the ark shall be three hundred cubits, its width fifty cubits, and its height thirty cubits.  
You shall make a window for the ark, and you shall finish it to a cubit above; and the door of the ark you shall set in its side; with lower, second, and third decks you shall make it.  
And behold, I, even I, am bringing a flood of waters upon the earth, to destroy all flesh in which is the breath of life from under heaven; everything that is on the earth shall die.  
But I will establish my covenant with you; and you shall enter the ark, you, and your sons, and your wife, and your sons' wives with you.  
And of every living thing of all flesh, you shall bring two of every kind into the ark, to keep them alive with you; they shall be male and female.  
Of birds after their kind, and of cattle after their kind, of every creeping thing of the earth after its kind, two of every sort shall come to you, to keep them alive.  
And you shall take for yourself of all food that is eaten, and you shall gather it to yourself; and it shall be for food for you and for them.  
Thus did Noah; according to all that God commanded him, so he did.