Then Solomon said, "The LORD has declared that He would dwell in thick darkness.  
But I have built a house of habitation for You, and a place for Your dwelling forever.  
And the king turned his face and blessed the entire congregation of Israel; all the congregation of Israel stood.  
He said, "Blessed be the LORD God of Israel, who has fulfilled with His hands what He spoke with His mouth to my father David, saying,  
'Since the day I brought my people out of the land of Egypt, I chose no city among all the tribes of Israel to build a house in, that my name might be there; nor did I choose any man to be a ruler over my people Israel.  
But I have chosen Jerusalem, that my name might be there; and I have chosen David to be over my people Israel.'  
Now it was in the heart of my father David to build a house for the name of the LORD God of Israel.  
But the LORD said to my father David, 'Because it was in your heart to build a house for my name, you did well that it was in your heart.  
Nevertheless, you shall not build the house; your son, who shall come from your loins, he shall build the house for my name.'  
The LORD has therefore performed His word that He spoke: for I have risen up in the place of my father David and am set on the throne of Israel, as the LORD promised, and have built the house for the name of the LORD God of Israel.  
And in it, I have placed the ark, which contains the covenant of the LORD that He made with the children of Israel.  
He stood before the altar of the LORD in the presence of all the congregation of Israel and spread forth his hands.  
For Solomon had made a bronze scaffold five cubits long, five cubits wide, and three cubits high, and had set it in the midst of the court; upon it, he stood, knelt down before all the congregation of Israel, and spread forth his hands toward heaven.  
And he said, 'O LORD God of Israel, there is no God like You in heaven or on earth; You keep covenant and show mercy to Your servants who walk before You with all their hearts.  
You who have kept with Your servant David my father what You promised him; You spoke with Your mouth and have fulfilled it with Your hand, as it is this day.  
Now therefore, O LORD God of Israel, keep with Your servant David my father what You promised him, saying, 'There shall not fail you a man in my sight to sit upon the throne of Israel; provided that your children take heed to their way to walk in my law, as you have walked before me.'  
Now then, O LORD God of Israel, let Your word be confirmed, which You have spoken to Your servant David.  
But will God indeed dwell with men on the earth? Behold, heaven and the heaven of heavens cannot contain You; how much less this house which I have built!  
Therefore, have respect to the prayer of Your servant and to his supplication, O LORD my God, to listen to the cry and the prayer which Your servant prays before You:  
That Your eyes may be open upon this house day and night, upon the place of which You have said that You would put Your name there; to listen to the prayer which Your servant prays toward this place.  
Listen therefore to the supplications of Your servant and of Your people Israel, which they shall make toward this place; hear from Your dwelling place, even from heaven; and when You hear, forgive.  
If a man sins against his neighbor, and an oath is laid upon him to make him swear, and the oath comes before Your altar in this house;  
Then hear from heaven and act, and judge Your servants, by requiting the wicked, by bringing his way upon his own head; and by justifying the righteous, by giving him according to his righteousness.  
And if Your people Israel are defeated before the enemy because they have sinned against You; and they return and confess Your name, and pray and make supplication before You in this house;  
Then hear from heaven and forgive the sin of Your people Israel, and bring them back to the land which You gave to them and to their fathers.  
When heaven is shut up and there is no rain because they have sinned against You; yet if they pray toward this place, and confess Your name, and turn from their sin when You afflict them;  
Then hear from heaven and forgive the sin of Your servants and of Your people Israel, when You have taught them the good way in which they should walk; and send rain upon Your land, which You have given to Your people for an inheritance.  
If there is famine in the land, if there is pestilence, if there is blight or mildew, locusts, or caterpillars; if their enemies besiege them in the cities of their land; whatever sore or sickness there is:  
Then whatever prayer or supplication shall be made by any man, or by all Your people Israel, when everyone knows his own sore and his own grief, and spreads forth his hands in this house:  
Then hear from heaven Your dwelling place, and forgive, and render to every man according to all his ways, whose heart You know; (for You alone know the hearts of the children of men:)  
That they may fear You, to walk in Your ways, as long as they live in the land which You gave to our fathers.  
Moreover, concerning the stranger who is not of Your people Israel, but has come from a far country for Your great name's sake, and Your mighty hand, and Your outstretched arm; if they come and pray in this house;  
Then hear from the heavens, even from Your dwelling place, and do according to all that the stranger calls to You for; that all the peoples of the earth may know Your name and fear You, as does Your people Israel, and may know that this house which I have built is called by Your name.  
If Your people go out to war against their enemies by the way that You send them, and they pray to You toward this city which You have chosen, and the house which I have built for Your name;  
Then hear from the heavens their prayer and their supplication, and maintain their cause.  
If they sin against You, (for there is no man who does not sin,) and You become angry with them, and deliver them over to their enemies, and they carry them away captive to a land far off or near;  
Yet if they come to themselves in the land where they are carried captive, and turn and pray to You in the land of their captivity, saying, 'We have sinned, we have done wrong, and have acted wickedly;'  
If they return to You with all their heart and with all their soul in the land of their captivity, where they have been taken captive, and pray toward their land, which You gave to their fathers, and toward the city which You have chosen, and toward the house which I have built for Your name:  
Then hear from the heavens, even from Your dwelling place, their prayer and their supplications, and maintain their cause, and forgive Your people who have sinned against You.  
Now, my God, let, I beseech You, Your eyes be open, and let Your ears be attentive to the prayer that is made in this place.  
Now therefore arise, O LORD God, into Your resting place, You, and the ark of Your strength; let Your priests, O LORD God, be clothed with salvation, and let Your saints rejoice in goodness.  
O LORD God, do not turn away the face of Your anointed; remember the mercies of Your servant David."