In the seventh month, on the twenty-first day of the month, the word of the LORD came through the prophet Haggai, saying,  
"Speak now to Zerubbabel, the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua, the son of Josedech, the high priest, and to the remnant of the people, saying,  
'Who among you is left that saw this house in its former glory? And how do you see it now? Is it not in your eyes as nothing in comparison?'  
Yet now be strong, O Zerubbabel, says the LORD; and be strong, O Joshua, son of Josedech, the high priest; and be strong, all you people of the land, says the LORD, and work: for I am with you, says the LORD of hosts.  
According to the promise I made with you when you came out of Egypt, my Spirit remains among you: do not fear.  
For thus says the LORD of hosts: 'Yet once more, in a little while, I will shake the heavens, the earth, the sea, and the dry land;  
And I will shake all nations, and the desire of all nations shall come: and I will fill this house with glory, says the LORD of hosts.  
The silver is mine, and the gold is mine, says the LORD of hosts.  
The glory of this latter house shall be greater than that of the former, says the LORD of hosts: and in this place, I will give peace, says the LORD of hosts.  
On the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month, in the second year of Darius, the word of the LORD came through Haggai the prophet, saying,  
Thus says the LORD of hosts: 'Ask now the priests concerning the law, saying,  
If someone carries holy flesh in the fold of their garment, and with their fold touches bread, or stew, or wine, or oil, or any food, will it become holy?' And the priests answered and said, 'No.'  
Then Haggai said, 'If someone who is unclean by a dead body touches any of these, will it be unclean?' And the priests answered and said, 'It shall be unclean.'  
Then Haggai answered and said, 'So is this people, and so is this nation before me, says the LORD; and so is every work of their hands; and what they offer there is unclean.  
And now, I pray you, consider from this day and onward, from before a stone was laid upon a stone in the temple of the LORD:  
Since those days, when one came to a heap of twenty measures, there were but ten; when one came to the winepress to draw out fifty vessels from the press, there were but twenty.  
I struck you with blight, mildew, and hail in all the labors of your hands; yet you did not turn to me, says the LORD.  
Consider now from this day and onward, from the twenty-fourth day of the ninth month, even from the day that the foundation of the LORD's temple was laid, consider it.  
Is the seed still in the barn? Yes, as yet the vine, the fig tree, the pomegranate, and the olive tree have not borne fruit: from this day, I will bless you.'  
And again, the word of the LORD came to Haggai on the twenty-fourth day of the month, saying,  
'Speak to Zerubbabel, governor of Judah, saying, I will shake the heavens and the earth;  
And I will overthrow the thrones of kingdoms, and I will destroy the strength of the kingdoms of the nations; and I will overthrow the chariots, and those who ride in them; and the horses and their riders shall come down, every one by the sword of his brother.  
In that day, says the LORD of hosts, I will take you, O Zerubbabel, my servant, son of Shealtiel, says the LORD, and I will make you like a signet ring: for I have chosen you, says the LORD of hosts.'