But it came to pass that when Sanballat heard that we were building the wall, he became furious, took great offense, and mocked the Jews.  
He spoke before his brethren and the army of Samaria, saying, "What do these weak Jews think they are doing? Will they fortify themselves? Will they offer sacrifices? Will they complete their work in a day? Will they revive the stones from the heaps of burned rubble?"  
Now Tobiah the Ammonite was with him, and he said, "Even what they are building, if a fox were to climb up on it, he would break down their stone wall."  
"Hear, O our God, for we are despised; turn their reproach upon their own heads, and give them as prey in the land of captivity.  
And do not cover their iniquity; let not their sin be erased from before You, for they have provoked You to anger before the builders."  
So we built the wall, and the entire wall was joined together to half its height, for the people had a mind to work.  
But it came to pass that when Sanballat, Tobiah, the Arabians, the Ammonites, and the Ashdodites heard that the walls of Jerusalem were being restored and that the breaches were beginning to be closed, they were very angry.  
They conspired together to come and fight against Jerusalem and to hinder it.  
Nevertheless, we prayed to our God and set a watch against them day and night because of this.  
Judah said, "The strength of the bearers of burdens is failing, and there is much rubbish, so we are unable to build the wall."  
Our adversaries said, "They will not know or see until we come among them, kill them, and cause the work to cease."  
And it came to pass that when the Jews who lived near them came, they said to us ten times, "From all places where you turn, they will be upon you."  
Therefore, I stationed people in the lower places behind the wall and on the higher places; I set the people by their families with their swords, spears, and bows.  
I looked, rose up, and said to the nobles, the rulers, and the rest of the people, "Do not be afraid of them; remember the LORD, who is great and awesome, and fight for your brethren, your sons, your daughters, your wives, and your homes."  
And it came to pass that when our enemies heard that it was known to us and that God had frustrated their plan, we all returned to the wall, each one to his work.  
From that time on, half of my servants worked on the project, while the other half held the spears, shields, bows, and armor; and the rulers stood behind all the people of Judah.  
Those who built the wall and those who carried burdens, each with one hand worked on the project and with the other hand held a weapon.  
For the builders, each had his sword girded at his side as they built. And he who sounded the trumpet was beside me.  
I said to the nobles, the rulers, and the rest of the people, "The work is great and extensive, and we are separated on the wall, one far from another.  
In whatever place you hear the sound of the trumpet, gather there to us; our God will fight for us."  
So we labored in the work, and half of them held the spears from dawn until the stars appeared.  
At the same time, I said to the people, "Let every one of you and your servants stay within Jerusalem, so that they may be a guard for us by night and a laborer by day."  
So neither I, nor my brethren, nor my servants, nor the men of the guard who followed me, did any of us take off our clothes, except for when each one needed to wash them.