Then Job responded to the LORD, saying,
"I know that You can do all things, and that no thought can be hidden from You.
Who is it that hides counsel without knowledge? Therefore, I have spoken of things I did not understand; things too marvelous for me, which I did not know.
Please listen, and I will speak: I will ask You, and You will answer me.
I had heard of You by the hearing of the ear, but now my eye sees You.
Therefore, I despise myself and repent in dust and ashes."
And it came to pass that after the LORD had spoken these words to Job, the LORD said to Eliphaz the Temanite, "My anger is kindled against you and your two friends, for you have not spoken of Me what is right, as My servant Job has.
Now, take for yourselves seven bullocks and seven rams, and go to My servant Job, and offer up a burnt offering for yourselves; and My servant Job shall pray for you: I will accept him, lest I deal with you according to your folly, because you have not spoken of Me what is right, like My servant Job."
So Eliphaz the Temanite, Bildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Naamathite went and did as the LORD commanded them; the LORD also accepted Job.
And the LORD restored Job's fortunes when he prayed for his friends; the LORD gave Job twice as much as he had before.
Then all his brothers, all his sisters, and all who had been his acquaintances before came to him and ate bread with him in his house; they comforted him and mourned over all the evil that the LORD had brought upon him. Each one also gave him a piece of money and an earring of gold.
So the LORD blessed the latter part of Job's life more than the former: he had fourteen thousand sheep, six thousand camels, a thousand yoke of oxen, and a thousand female donkeys.
He also had seven sons and three daughters.
He named the first Jemima, the second Kezia, and the third Kerenhappuch.
In all the land, no women were found as beautiful as the daughters of Job, and their father granted them an inheritance among their brothers.
After this, Job lived a hundred and forty years and saw his children and their children to the fourth generation.
So Job died, old and full of days.
