Now these are the words of the letter that Jeremiah the prophet sent from Jerusalem to the remaining elders who were taken captive, and to the priests, and to the prophets, and to all the people whom Nebuchadnezzar had carried away captive from Jerusalem to Babylon;
(After Jeconiah the king, and the queen, and the eunuchs, the princes of Judah and Jerusalem, and the carpenters, and the smiths, had departed from Jerusalem;)
By the hand of Elasah the son of Shaphan, and Gemariah the son of Hilkiah, (whom Zedekiah king of Judah sent to Babylon to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon) saying,
Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, to all who are carried away captives, whom I have caused to be taken from Jerusalem to Babylon;
Build houses, and dwell in them; and plant gardens, and eat their fruit;
Take wives, and beget sons and daughters; and take wives for your sons, and give your daughters to husbands, that they may bear sons and daughters; that you may be increased there, and not diminished.
And seek the peace of the city where I have caused you to be carried away captives, and pray to the LORD for it: for in its peace shall you have peace.
For thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Let not your prophets and your diviners, who are in your midst, deceive you, neither listen to your dreams which you cause to be dreamed.
For they prophesy falsely to you in my name: I have not sent them, saith the LORD.
For thus saith the LORD, that after seventy years are accomplished at Babylon I will visit you, and perform my good word toward you, in causing you to return to this place.
For I know the thoughts that I think toward you, saith the LORD, thoughts of peace, and not of evil, to give you an expected end.
Then shall you call upon me, and you shall go and pray to me, and I will hearken to you.
And you shall seek me, and find me, when you search for me with all your heart.
And I will be found by you, saith the LORD: and I will turn away your captivity, and I will gather you from all the nations, and from all the places where I have driven you, saith the LORD; and I will bring you back to the place from which I caused you to be carried away captive.
Because you have said, The LORD has raised up prophets for us in Babylon;
Know that thus saith the LORD concerning the king who sits on the throne of David, and concerning all the people who dwell in this city, and concerning your brethren who have not gone forth with you into captivity;
Thus saith the LORD of hosts; Behold, I will send upon them the sword, the famine, and the pestilence, and will make them like vile figs, that cannot be eaten, they are so bad.
And I will pursue them with the sword, with the famine, and with the pestilence, and will deliver them to be removed to all the kingdoms of the earth, to be a curse, and an astonishment, and a hissing, and a reproach, among all the nations where I have driven them:
Because they have not hearkened to my words, saith the LORD, which I sent to them by my servants the prophets, rising up early and sending them; but you would not hear, saith the LORD.
Hear therefore the word of the LORD, all you of the captivity, whom I have sent from Jerusalem to Babylon:
Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, concerning Ahab the son of Kolaiah, and concerning Zedekiah the son of Maaseiah, who prophesy a lie to you in my name; Behold, I will deliver them into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon; and he shall slay them before your eyes;
And of them shall be taken up a curse by all the captivity of Judah who are in Babylon, saying, The LORD make you like Zedekiah and like Ahab, whom the king of Babylon roasted in the fire;
Because they have committed wickedness in Israel, and have committed adultery with their neighbors' wives, and have spoken lying words in my name, which I have not commanded them; even I know, and am a witness, saith the LORD.
Thus shalt thou also speak to Shemaiah the Nehelamite, saying,
Thus speaketh the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, saying, Because you have sent letters in your name to all the people who are at Jerusalem, and to Zephaniah the son of Maaseiah the priest, and to all the priests, saying,
The LORD has made you priest in the place of Jehoiada the priest, that you should be officers in the house of the LORD, for every man that is mad, and makes himself a prophet, that you should put him in prison, and in the stocks.
Now therefore why have you not reproved Jeremiah of Anathoth, who makes himself a prophet to you?
For he sent to us in Babylon, saying, This captivity is long: build houses, and dwell in them; and plant gardens, and eat their fruit.
And Zephaniah the priest read this letter in the ears of Jeremiah the prophet.
Then came the word of the LORD to Jeremiah, saying,
Send to all those of the captivity, saying, Thus saith the LORD concerning Shemaiah the Nehelamite; Because Shemaiah has prophesied to you, and I sent him not, and he caused you to trust in a lie:
Therefore thus saith the LORD; Behold, I will punish Shemaiah the Nehelamite, and his descendants: he shall not have a man to dwell among this people; neither shall he behold the good that I will do for my people, saith the LORD; because he has taught rebellion against the LORD.
