Then Jerubbaal, who is Gideon, and all the people with him rose early and camped beside the well of Harod, while the Midianite host was on the north side, near the hill of Moreh in the valley.  
And the LORD said to Gideon, "The people with you are too many for me to deliver the Midianites into their hands, lest Israel boast against me, saying, 'My own hand has saved me.'  
Now therefore, go and proclaim in the ears of the people, saying, 'Whoever is fearful and afraid, let him return and depart early from Mount Gilead.' So twenty-two thousand of the people returned, leaving ten thousand.  
And the LORD said to Gideon, "The people are still too many; bring them down to the water, and I will test them for you there. It shall be that of whom I say to you, 'This one shall go with you,' he shall go; and of whomsoever I say to you, 'This one shall not go with you,' he shall not go."  
So he brought the people down to the water, and the LORD said to Gideon, "Everyone who laps the water with his tongue, as a dog laps, you shall set apart by himself; likewise, everyone who bows down on his knees to drink."  
The number of those who lapped, bringing water to their mouths, was three hundred men; but all the rest of the people knelt down to drink water.  
And the LORD said to Gideon, "By the three hundred men who lapped, I will save you and deliver the Midianites into your hand; let all the other people go, every man to his place."  
So the people took provisions in their hands and their trumpets; and he sent all the rest of Israel, every man to his tent, and retained those three hundred men. The Midianite host was below him in the valley.  
That same night, the LORD said to him, "Arise, go down to the host, for I have delivered it into your hand.  
But if you are afraid to go down, go with Phurah your servant down to the host.  
And you shall hear what they say; afterward, your hands shall be strengthened to go down to the host." So he went down with Phurah his servant to the outskirts of the armed men in the host.  
The Midianites, the Amalekites, and all the children of the east lay in the valley like a multitude of grasshoppers; their camels were without number, as the sand by the seashore for multitude.  
When Gideon arrived, he overheard a man telling his companion about a dream, saying, "I dreamed a dream, and behold, a cake of barley bread tumbled into the host of Midian, came to a tent, struck it, and it fell, overturning it so that the tent lay flat."  
His companion answered, "This is nothing else but the sword of Gideon the son of Joash, a man of Israel; for into his hand God has delivered Midian and all the host."  
When Gideon heard the telling of the dream and its interpretation, he worshipped, returned to the host of Israel, and said, "Arise, for the LORD has delivered into your hand the host of Midian."  
He divided the three hundred men into three companies, and he put a trumpet in every man's hand, with empty pitchers and lamps within the pitchers.  
He said to them, "Look at me and do likewise; when I come to the outskirts of the camp, as I do, so shall you do.  
When I blow the trumpet, I and all who are with me, then you also blow the trumpets all around the camp and say, 'The sword of the LORD and of Gideon!'"  
So Gideon and the hundred men who were with him came to the outskirts of the camp at the beginning of the middle watch, just as they had newly set the watch. They blew the trumpets and broke the pitchers that were in their hands.  
The three companies blew the trumpets, broke the pitchers, held the lamps in their left hands, and the trumpets in their right hands to blow with. They cried, "The sword of the LORD and of Gideon!"  
They stood every man in his place around the camp, and all the host ran, cried out, and fled.  
The three hundred blew the trumpets, and the LORD set every man's sword against his fellow throughout all the host; and the host fled to Bethshittah in Zererath and to the border of Abelmeholah, unto Tabbath.  
The men of Israel gathered together from Naphtali, Asher, and all Manasseh, and pursued after the Midianites.  
Gideon sent messengers throughout all Mount Ephraim, saying, "Come down against the Midianites and take the waters before them as far as Bethbarah and the Jordan." Then all the men of Ephraim gathered together and took the waters as far as Bethbarah and the Jordan.  
They captured two princes of the Midianites, Oreb and Zeeb; they killed Oreb at the rock of Oreb and Zeeb they killed at the winepress of Zeeb, and they pursued Midian, bringing the heads of Oreb and Zeeb to Gideon on the other side of the Jordan.