And the LORD said to Noah, "Come you and all your household into the ark; for I have seen you as righteous before me in this generation."
Of every clean animal, you shall take seven, the male and his female; and of the unclean animals, two, the male and his female.
Of the birds of the air, you shall take seven, the male and the female, to keep their seed alive upon the face of all the earth.
For in seven days, I will cause it to rain upon the earth for forty days and forty nights; and every living thing that I have made will I destroy from the face of the earth.
And Noah did according to all that the LORD commanded him.
Noah was six hundred years old when the floodwaters came upon the earth.
Noah, along with his sons, his wife, and his sons' wives, entered the ark because of the floodwaters.
Of clean animals, unclean animals, birds, and everything that creeps upon the earth,
Two by two they entered the ark with Noah, the male and the female, as God had commanded Noah.
And after seven days, the floodwaters were upon the earth.
In the six hundredth year of Noah's life, on the seventeenth day of the second month, all the fountains of the great deep were broken up, and the windows of heaven were opened.
And it rained upon the earth for forty days and forty nights.
On that very day, Noah, along with his sons Shem, Ham, and Japheth, his wife, and the three wives of his sons, entered the ark.
They, along with every kind of beast, cattle, creeping thing, and every kind of bird, entered the ark.
They went into the ark with Noah, two by two of all flesh that has the breath of life.
Those who entered were male and female of all flesh, as God had commanded him; and the LORD shut him in.
The flood lasted for forty days upon the earth; the waters increased and lifted the ark above the earth.
The waters prevailed and greatly increased upon the earth; the ark floated on the surface of the waters.
The waters rose exceedingly upon the earth, covering all the high hills under the whole heaven.
The waters prevailed fifteen cubits upward, and the mountains were covered.
All flesh that moved upon the earth died, including birds, cattle, beasts, and every creeping thing, as well as every man.
All in whose nostrils was the breath of life, of all that was on dry land, died.
Every living thing on the face of the ground was destroyed, including man, cattle, creeping things, and birds of the heavens; they were wiped from the earth. Only Noah remained alive, and those who were with him in the ark.
The waters prevailed upon the earth for one hundred and fifty days.
