And Jacob lived in the land where his father had been a stranger, in the land of Canaan.  
These are the descendants of Jacob. Joseph, at seventeen years old, was tending the flock with his brothers; and the young man was with the sons of Bilhah and the sons of Zilpah, his father's wives: and Joseph brought a bad report to his father about them.  
Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his other children because he was the son of his old age; and he made him a coat of many colors.  
When his brothers saw that their father loved him more than all of them, they hated him and could not speak kindly to him.  
Joseph had a dream, and he told it to his brothers, and they hated him even more.  
He said to them, "Please listen to this dream I have dreamed:  
For behold, we were binding sheaves in the field, and my sheaf arose and stood upright; and your sheaves stood around and bowed down to my sheaf."  
His brothers said to him, "Will you indeed reign over us? Will you indeed have dominion over us?" And they hated him even more for his dreams and for his words.  
He dreamed another dream and told it to his brothers, saying, "Behold, I have dreamed another dream; and behold, the sun, the moon, and eleven stars bowed down to me."  
He told it to his father and his brothers, and his father rebuked him, saying, "What is this dream that you have dreamed? Shall I and your mother and your brothers indeed come to bow down to the ground before you?"  
His brothers were envious of him, but his father kept the matter in mind.  
His brothers went to feed their father's flock in Shechem.  
Israel said to Joseph, "Are not your brothers feeding the flock in Shechem? Come, and I will send you to them." And he answered, "Here I am."  
He said to him, "Go now, see if it is well with your brothers and well with the flocks; and bring me word again." So he sent him from the valley of Hebron, and he came to Shechem.  
A certain man found him, and behold, he was wandering in the field. The man asked him, "What are you seeking?"  
He said, "I am seeking my brothers; tell me, please, where they are feeding their flocks."  
The man said, "They have departed from here; for I heard them say, 'Let us go to Dothan.'" So Joseph went after his brothers and found them in Dothan.  
When they saw him from a distance, and before he came near to them, they conspired against him to kill him.  
They said to one another, "Look, this dreamer is coming.  
Come now, therefore, and let us kill him and cast him into some pit; and we will say, 'Some wild beast has devoured him.' Then we shall see what will become of his dreams."  
Reuben heard it, and he delivered him out of their hands, saying, "Let us not kill him."  
Reuben said to them, "Shed no blood, but cast him into this pit that is in the wilderness, and lay no hand upon him," that he might rescue him out of their hands and return him to his father.  
It came to pass, when Joseph came to his brothers, that they stripped him of his coat, the coat of many colors that was on him;  
They took him and cast him into a pit; the pit was empty; there was no water in it.  
They sat down to eat bread, and they lifted up their eyes and looked, and behold, a company of Ishmaelites came from Gilead with their camels bearing spices, balm, and myrrh, going to carry it down to Egypt.  
Judah said to his brothers, "What profit is it if we kill our brother and conceal his blood?  
Come, let us sell him to the Ishmaelites, and let not our hand be upon him; for he is our brother and our flesh." And his brothers agreed.  
Then Midianite merchants passed by; they drew and lifted Joseph out of the pit, and sold Joseph to the Ishmaelites for twenty pieces of silver. They brought Joseph into Egypt.  
Reuben returned to the pit, and behold, Joseph was not in the pit; and he tore his clothes.  
He returned to his brothers and said, "The boy is gone! And I, where shall I go?"  
They took Joseph's coat, killed a kid of the goats, and dipped the coat in the blood;  
They sent the coat of many colors and brought it to their father, saying, "We found this; please identify whether it is your son's coat or not."  
He recognized it and said, "It is my son's coat; a wild beast has devoured him; Joseph is without doubt torn to pieces."  
Jacob tore his clothes, put sackcloth on his loins, and mourned for his son many days.  
All his sons and all his daughters rose up to comfort him, but he refused to be comforted, and he said, "For I shall go down into the grave mourning for my son." Thus his father wept for him.  
The Midianites sold him into Egypt to Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh's, and captain of the guard.