And it came to pass after many days that the word of the LORD came to Elijah in the third year, saying, "Go, show yourself to Ahab; and I will send rain upon the earth."  
And Elijah went to present himself to Ahab. And there was a severe famine in Samaria.  
And Ahab called Obadiah, who was the governor of his house. (Now Obadiah greatly feared the LORD:  
For it was so, when Jezebel cut off the prophets of the LORD, that Obadiah took a hundred prophets and hid them by fifties in a cave, and fed them with bread and water.)  
And Ahab said to Obadiah, "Go into the land, to all the springs of water and to all the brooks; perhaps we may find grass to save the horses and mules alive, so that we do not lose all the animals."  
So they divided the land between them to explore it: Ahab went one way by himself, and Obadiah went another way by himself.  
And as Obadiah was on his way, behold, Elijah met him: and he recognized him, and fell on his face, and said, "Are you my lord Elijah?"  
And he answered him, "I am. Go, tell your lord, 'Behold, Elijah is here.'"  
And Obadiah said, "What sin have I committed, that you would deliver your servant into the hand of Ahab, to kill me?  
As the LORD your God lives, there is no nation or kingdom where my lord has not sent to seek you; and when they said, 'He is not there,' he took an oath of the kingdom and nation that they had not found you.  
And now you say, 'Go, tell your lord, Behold, Elijah is here.'  
And it shall come to pass, as soon as I leave you, that the Spirit of the LORD will carry you to a place I do not know; and when I go and tell Ahab, and he cannot find you, he will kill me. But I, your servant, fear the LORD from my youth.  
Was it not told my lord what I did when Jezebel killed the prophets of the LORD, how I hid a hundred of the LORD's prophets by fifties in a cave, and fed them with bread and water?  
And now you say, 'Go, tell your lord, Behold, Elijah is here,' and he will kill me."  
And Elijah said, "As the LORD of hosts lives, before whom I stand, I will surely present myself to him today."  
So Obadiah went to meet Ahab and told him; and Ahab went to meet Elijah.  
And it came to pass, when Ahab saw Elijah, that Ahab said to him, "Are you the one who troubles Israel?"  
And he answered, "I have not troubled Israel; but you and your father's house have, in that you have forsaken the commandments of the LORD and have followed Baal.  
Now therefore send and gather all Israel to me at Mount Carmel, and the prophets of Baal four hundred and fifty, and the prophets of the groves four hundred, who eat at Jezebel's table."  
So Ahab sent to all the children of Israel and gathered the prophets together at Mount Carmel.  
And Elijah came to all the people and said, "How long will you falter between two opinions? If the LORD is God, follow Him; but if Baal, then follow him." But the people answered him not a word.  
Then Elijah said to the people, "I alone am left a prophet of the LORD, but Baal's prophets are four hundred and fifty men.  
Let them therefore give us two bullocks; and let them choose one bullock for themselves, and cut it in pieces, and lay it on wood, but put no fire under it; and I will prepare the other bullock and lay it on wood, but put no fire under it.  
And call on the name of your gods, and I will call on the name of the LORD; and the God who answers by fire, let Him be God." And all the people answered and said, "It is well spoken."  
And Elijah said to the prophets of Baal, "Choose one bullock for yourselves and prepare it first, for you are many; and call on the name of your gods, but put no fire under it."  
And they took the bullock which was given them, and they prepared it, and called on the name of Baal from morning until noon, saying, "O Baal, hear us." But there was no voice, nor any that answered. And they leaped upon the altar which was made.  
And it came to pass at noon that Elijah mocked them, and said, "Cry aloud, for he is a god; either he is meditating, or he is busy, or he is on a journey, or perhaps he is sleeping and must be awakened."  
And they cried aloud and cut themselves according to their custom with knives and lances, until the blood gushed out upon them.  
And it came to pass, when midday was past, and they prophesied until the time of the evening sacrifice, that there was neither voice, nor any to answer, nor any that regarded.  
And Elijah said to all the people, "Come near to me." And all the people came near to him. And he repaired the altar of the LORD that was broken down.  
And Elijah took twelve stones, according to the number of the tribes of the sons of Jacob, to whom the word of the LORD came, saying, "Israel shall be your name."  
And with the stones he built an altar in the name of the LORD; and he made a trench about the altar, large enough to hold two measures of seed.  
And he put the wood in order, and cut the bullock in pieces, and laid it on the wood, and said, "Fill four barrels with water and pour it on the burnt sacrifice and on the wood."  
And he said, "Do it a second time." And they did it a second time. And he said, "Do it a third time." And they did it a third time.  
And the water ran all around the altar; and he filled the trench also with water.  
And it came to pass at the time of the evening sacrifice that Elijah the prophet came near and said, "LORD God of Abraham, Isaac, and of Israel, let it be known this day that you are God in Israel, and that I am your servant, and that I have done all these things at your word.  
Hear me, O LORD, hear me, that this people may know that you are the LORD God, and that you have turned their hearts back again."  
Then the fire of the LORD fell and consumed the burnt sacrifice, and the wood, and the stones, and the dust, and licked up the water that was in the trench.  
And when all the people saw it, they fell on their faces and said, "The LORD, He is God; the LORD, He is God."  
And Elijah said to them, "Seize the prophets of Baal; let not one of them escape." And they seized them; and Elijah brought them down to the brook Kishon and killed them there.  
And Elijah said to Ahab, "Go up, eat and drink, for there is a sound of abundance of rain."  
So Ahab went up to eat and drink. And Elijah went up to the top of Carmel; and he cast himself down upon the earth and put his face between his knees,  
And said to his servant, "Go up now, look toward the sea." And he went up and looked and said, "There is nothing." And he said, "Go again seven times."  
And it came to pass at the seventh time that he said, "Behold, there arises a little cloud out of the sea, like a man's hand." And he said, "Go up, say to Ahab, 'Prepare your chariot and get down, that the rain does not stop you.'"  
And it came to pass, in the meantime, that the heaven was black with clouds and wind, and there was a great rain. And Ahab rode and went to Jezreel.  
And the hand of the LORD was on Elijah; and he girded up his loins and ran before Ahab to the entrance of Jezreel.