For you, dear brethren, know that our arrival among you was not in vain.
Yet, even after we had endured suffering and were treated shamefully, as you are aware, in Philippi, we boldly proclaimed the gospel of God to you despite much opposition.
Our encouragement did not stem from deceit, impurity, or trickery.
Rather, as we were entrusted by God with the gospel, we spoke not to please men, but to please God, who examines our hearts.
At no time did we use flattering words, as you know, nor did we cloak our intentions with greed; God is our witness.
We did not seek glory from men, neither from you nor from others, even though we could have been a burden, as the apostles of Christ.
Instead, we were gentle among you, like a nurse caring for her children.
Being affectionately eager for you, we were willing to share not only the gospel of God but also our very lives, because you were precious to us.
You remember, dear brethren, our hard work and toil: we labored night and day so as not to be a burden to any of you while we preached the gospel of God.
You are witnesses, and so is God, of how holy, just, and blameless we conducted ourselves among you who believe.
As you know, we encouraged, comforted, and urged each of you, just as a father does with his children,
That you would live in a manner worthy of God, who has called you into His kingdom and glory.
For this reason, we continually thank God, because when you received the word of God that you heard from us, you accepted it not as the word of men, but as it truly is, the word of God, which is at work in you who believe.
For you, dear brethren, became imitators of the churches of God in Judea, which are in Christ Jesus; for you also suffered the same things from your fellow countrymen, just as they did from the Jews.
They killed the Lord Jesus and their own prophets, and they persecuted us; they do not please God and are opposed to all men.
They hinder us from speaking to the Gentiles so that they may be saved, thus filling up their sins to the fullest; for the wrath of God has come upon them completely.
But we, dear brethren, having been separated from you for a short time in presence, not in heart, have endeavored even more eagerly to see your face with great longing.
Therefore, we wanted to come to you, even I, Paul, time and again; but Satan hindered us.
For what is our hope, joy, or crown of rejoicing? Is it not you in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ at His coming?
For you are our glory and joy.
