In You, O LORD, I place my trust; let me never be put to shame: rescue me in Your righteousness.
Incline Your ear to me; deliver me quickly: be my strong rock, a house of refuge to save me.
For You are my rock and my fortress; therefore, for Your name's sake, lead me and guide me.
Pull me out of the net they have secretly laid for me: for You are my strength.
Into Your hand I commit my spirit: You have redeemed me, O LORD God of truth.
I have despised those who regard false vanities: but I trust in the LORD.
I will rejoice and be glad in Your mercy: for You have considered my trouble; You have known my soul in distress;
And have not handed me over to the enemy: You have set my feet in a spacious place.
Have mercy upon me, O LORD, for I am in distress: my eye is consumed with grief, yes, my soul and my body.
For my life is spent with grief, and my years with sighing: my strength fails because of my iniquity, and my bones are weakened.
I have become a reproach among all my enemies, especially among my neighbors, and a fear to my acquaintances: those who see me flee from me.
I am forgotten like a dead man out of mind: I am like a broken vessel.
For I have heard the slander of many: fear was on every side: while they conspired together against me, they plotted to take my life.
But I trusted in You, O LORD: I said, You are my God.
My times are in Your hand: deliver me from the hand of my enemies, and from those who persecute me.
Make Your face shine upon Your servant: save me for the sake of Your mercies.
Let me not be put to shame, O LORD; for I have called upon You: let the wicked be put to shame, and let them be silent in the grave.
Let lying lips be silenced; those who speak arrogantly and contemptuously against the righteous.
Oh, how great is Your goodness, which You have stored up for those who fear You; which You have prepared for those who trust in You before the sons of men!
You shall hide them in the secret of Your presence from the pride of man: You shall keep them secretly in a shelter from the strife of tongues.
Blessed be the LORD: for He has shown me His marvelous kindness in a strong city.
For I said in my haste, I am cut off from Your sight: nevertheless, You heard the voice of my supplications when I cried out to You.
O love the LORD, all you His saints: for the LORD preserves the faithful and abundantly rewards the proud doer.
Be strong and courageous, and He shall strengthen your heart, all you who hope in the LORD.
