Then the LORD said to me, "Even if Moses and Samuel stood before me, my heart would not be inclined toward this people. Cast them out of my sight and let them go."
And it shall come to pass, if they ask you, "Where shall we go?" you shall tell them, "Thus says the LORD: Those destined for death, to death; those destined for the sword, to the sword; those destined for famine, to famine; and those destined for captivity, to captivity."
"I will appoint over them four kinds of destruction," says the LORD: "the sword to kill, the dogs to tear, the birds of the air, and the beasts of the earth to devour and destroy."
"I will cause them to be scattered among all the kingdoms of the earth because of Manasseh, the son of Hezekiah, king of Judah, for what he did in Jerusalem."
"For who will have compassion on you, O Jerusalem? Who will mourn for you? Who will turn aside to ask how you are?"
"You have forsaken me," says the LORD; "you have gone backward. Therefore, I will stretch out my hand against you and destroy you; I am weary of relenting."
"I will winnow them with a winnowing fork at the gates of the land; I will bereave them of children and destroy my people because they do not turn from their ways."
"The number of widows has increased to me beyond the sands of the sea; I have brought upon them against the mother of young men a destroyer at noon; I have caused him to fall upon it suddenly, and terrors upon the city."
"She who has borne seven languishes; she has given up the ghost; her sun has set while it was still day; she has been ashamed and humiliated; and the remnant of them I will deliver to the sword before their enemies," says the LORD.
"Woe is me, my mother, that you have borne me a man of strife and contention for the whole earth! I have neither lent on interest, nor have men lent to me on interest; yet everyone curses me."
The LORD said, "Truly, it shall be well with your remnant; I will cause the enemy to treat you well in times of trouble and affliction."
"Can iron break the northern iron and the steel?"
"I will give your wealth and treasures as plunder without cost, and that for all your sins, even throughout your borders."
"I will make you pass with your enemies into a land you do not know; for a fire is kindled in my anger, which shall burn upon you."
"O LORD, you know; remember me and visit me, and take vengeance on my persecutors; do not take me away in your long-suffering; know that for your sake I have endured reproach."
"I found your words, and I ate them; and your word was to me the joy and rejoicing of my heart; for I am called by your name, O LORD God of hosts."
"I did not sit in the assembly of the mockers, nor did I rejoice; I sat alone because of your hand, for you have filled me with indignation."
"Why is my pain perpetual, and my wound incurable, which refuses to be healed? Will you be altogether to me like a liar, and like waters that fail?"
"Therefore, thus says the LORD: If you return, I will bring you back, and you shall stand before me; and if you take the precious from the worthless, you shall be as my mouth. Let them return to you, but you must not return to them."
"I will make you a fortified bronze wall to this people; they will fight against you, but they shall not prevail against you; for I am with you to save you and deliver you," says the LORD.
"And I will deliver you from the hand of the wicked, and I will redeem you from the hand of the terrible."
