After five days, Ananias the high priest, along with the elders and a certain orator named Tertullus, descended to inform the governor about Paul.
When called forth, Tertullus began to accuse him, saying, "Since we enjoy great peace through you, and very worthy deeds are done for this nation by your providence,
We always accept this, most noble Felix, with all gratitude.
However, to avoid being tedious, I ask that you hear us speak a few words out of your kindness.
For we have found this man to be a pestilent fellow, stirring up sedition among all the Jews throughout the world, and a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes.
He has also attempted to profane the temple, and we seized him, intending to judge him according to our law.
But the chief captain Lysias intervened, taking him away from us with great force,
Commanding his accusers to come before you, so that you may examine them and understand the charges we bring against him.
The Jews also agreed, affirming that these things were true.
Then Paul, after the governor beckoned for him to speak, replied, "Since I know that you have been a judge of this nation for many years, I gladly make my defense.
You may understand that it has only been twelve days since I went up to Jerusalem to worship.
They did not find me in the temple disputing with anyone, nor inciting the crowd, either in the synagogues or in the city.
Nor can they prove the charges they now bring against me.
But I confess to you that according to the way they call heresy, I worship the God of my fathers, believing everything written in the law and the prophets.
I have hope in God, which they themselves accept, that there will be a resurrection of the dead, both of the just and the unjust.
In this, I strive to maintain a clear conscience before God and men at all times.
After many years, I came to bring alms to my nation and offerings.
Certain Jews from Asia found me purified in the temple, not with a crowd or causing a disturbance.
They should have been here before you to present their charges if they had anything against me.
Or let these men here say if they have found any wrongdoing in me while I stood before the council,
Except for this one statement I made while standing among them: 'Concerning the resurrection of the dead, I am being judged by you today.'
When Felix heard these things, having a more accurate knowledge of the way, he postponed the case, saying, 'When Lysias the chief captain comes down, I will determine your case.'
He ordered a centurion to keep Paul, allowing him some freedom, and forbidding none of his acquaintances from visiting or ministering to him.
After some days, Felix came with his wife Drusilla, who was a Jewess. He sent for Paul and listened to him regarding faith in Christ.
As Paul spoke about righteousness, self-control, and the judgment to come, Felix became frightened and replied, 'Go away for now; when I have a more convenient time, I will call for you.'
He also hoped that money would be given to him by Paul so that he might release him; therefore, he sent for him more often and conversed with him.
But after two years, Porcius Festus succeeded Felix, and Felix, wanting to do the Jews a favor, left Paul imprisoned.
