Once more, the word of the LORD came to me, saying,  
"Son of man, speak to the children of your people and tell them: When I bring the sword upon a land, if the people of that land choose a man from among them and appoint him as their watchman:  
If he sees the sword coming upon the land and blows the trumpet to warn the people;  
Then whoever hears the sound of the trumpet and does not take warning; if the sword comes and takes him away, his blood will be on his own head.  
He heard the sound of the trumpet and did not take warning; his blood will be on him. But he who takes warning will save his life.  
However, if the watchman sees the sword coming and does not blow the trumpet, and the people are not warned; if the sword comes and takes any person from among them, he is taken away in his iniquity; but I will hold the watchman accountable for their blood.  
So you, O son of man, I have appointed you as a watchman for the house of Israel; therefore, you shall hear the word from my mouth and warn them from me.  
When I say to the wicked, 'O wicked man, you shall surely die;' if you do not speak to warn the wicked from his way, that wicked man shall die in his iniquity; but I will hold you accountable for his blood.  
Nevertheless, if you warn the wicked to turn from his way and he does not turn from it; he shall die in his iniquity; but you have saved your own life.  
Therefore, O son of man, speak to the house of Israel; say to them, 'If our transgressions and our sins are upon us, and we waste away in them, how can we then live?'  
Say to them, 'As I live,' says the Lord GOD, 'I take no pleasure in the death of the wicked; but that the wicked turn from his way and live: turn, turn from your evil ways; for why will you die, O house of Israel?'  
Therefore, you son of man, say to the children of your people, 'The righteousness of the righteous will not save him in the day of his transgression; as for the wickedness of the wicked, he shall not stumble because of it in the day he turns from his wickedness; nor shall the righteous be able to live for his righteousness in the day he sins.'  
When I say to the righteous that he shall surely live; if he trusts in his own righteousness and commits iniquity, none of his righteous deeds will be remembered; but for the iniquity he has committed, he shall die for it.  
Again, when I say to the wicked, 'You shall surely die;' if he turns from his sin and does what is lawful and right;  
If the wicked returns the pledge, gives back what he has robbed, walks in the statutes of life without committing iniquity; he shall surely live, he shall not die.  
None of the sins he has committed shall be mentioned to him: he has done what is lawful and right; he shall surely live.  
Yet the children of your people say, 'The way of the Lord is not fair:' but as for them, their way is not fair.  
When the righteous turns from his righteousness and commits iniquity, he shall die because of it.  
But if the wicked turns from his wickedness and does what is lawful and right, he shall live because of it.  
Yet you say, 'The way of the Lord is not fair.' O house of Israel, I will judge each of you according to your own ways.  
And it came to pass in the twelfth year of our captivity, in the tenth month, on the fifth day of the month, that one who had escaped from Jerusalem came to me, saying, 'The city has been struck down.'  
Now the hand of the LORD was upon me in the evening before the escapee came to me; and He opened my mouth until he came to me in the morning; and my mouth was opened, and I was no longer mute.  
Then the word of the LORD came to me, saying,  
"Son of man, those who inhabit the desolate places of the land of Israel say, 'Abraham was one, and he inherited the land; but we are many; the land has been given to us as an inheritance.'  
Therefore, say to them, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: You eat with the blood, lift up your eyes toward your idols, and shed blood: and will you possess the land?  
You stand upon your sword, commit abominations, and defile every one his neighbor's wife: and will you possess the land?  
Say to them, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: As I live, surely those who are in the desolate places shall fall by the sword, and I will give those in the open fields to the beasts to be devoured, and those in the strongholds and in the caves shall die of pestilence.  
For I will make the land most desolate, and the pride of her strength shall cease; and the mountains of Israel shall be desolate, so that no one will pass through.  
Then they shall know that I am the LORD, when I have made the land most desolate because of all their abominations which they have committed.  
Also, you son of man, the children of your people are still talking against you by the walls and in the doors of their houses, and speaking to one another, every one to his brother, saying, 'Come, I pray you, and hear what is the word that comes from the LORD.'  
And they come to you as people come, and they sit before you as my people, and they hear your words, but they will not do them: for with their mouth they show much love, but their heart goes after their covetousness.  
And behold, you are to them as a very lovely song of one who has a pleasant voice and can play well on an instrument: for they hear your words, but they do them not.  
And when this comes to pass, (lo, it will come,) then they shall know that a prophet has been among them."