And it came to pass that when Jeremiah had finished speaking to all the people the words of the LORD their God, which the LORD their God had sent him to deliver, even all these words,  
Then Azariah the son of Hoshaiah, Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the proud men spoke, saying to Jeremiah, "You are speaking falsely: the LORD our God has not sent you to say, 'Do not go into Egypt to dwell there.'"  
"But Baruch the son of Neriah is inciting you against us, to deliver us into the hands of the Chaldeans, so that they may put us to death and carry us away captives to Babylon."  
So Johanan the son of Kareah, all the captains of the forces, and all the people did not obey the voice of the LORD to remain in the land of Judah.  
But Johanan the son of Kareah and all the captains of the forces took all the remnant of Judah who had returned from all the nations where they had been driven, to dwell in the land of Judah;  
Including men, women, children, the king's daughters, and every person that Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard had left with Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, along with Jeremiah the prophet and Baruch the son of Neriah.  
So they entered the land of Egypt, for they did not obey the voice of the LORD; thus they came even to Tahpanhes.  
Then the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah in Tahpanhes, saying,  
"Take great stones in your hand and hide them in the clay of the brick kiln at the entrance of Pharaoh's house in Tahpanhes, in the sight of the men of Judah;  
And say to them, 'Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I will send and take Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon, my servant, and I will set his throne upon these stones that I have hidden; and he shall spread his royal pavilion over them.'  
And when he comes, he shall strike the land of Egypt, and deliver those destined for death to death; those destined for captivity to captivity; and those destined for the sword to the sword.  
And I will kindle a fire in the houses of the gods of Egypt; he shall burn them and carry them away captives. He shall array himself with the land of Egypt as a shepherd puts on his garment; and he shall go forth from there in peace.  
He shall also break the images of Bethshemesh, which is in the land of Egypt; and the houses of the gods of the Egyptians shall he burn with fire."