And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,  
Son of man, prophesy against the prophets of Israel who prophesy, and say to them that prophesy out of their own hearts, "Hear the word of the LORD."  
Thus says the Lord GOD: Woe to the foolish prophets who follow their own spirit and have seen nothing!  
O Israel, your prophets are like foxes in the deserts.  
You have not gone up into the gaps, nor made up the hedge for the house of Israel to stand in battle on the day of the LORD.  
They have seen vanity and lying divination, saying, "The LORD says," when the LORD has not sent them; and they have caused others to hope that they would confirm the word.  
Have you not seen a vain vision, and have you not spoken a lying divination, saying, "The LORD says it," when I have not spoken?  
Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD: Because you have spoken vanity and seen lies, behold, I am against you, says the Lord GOD.  
And my hand shall be upon the prophets who see vanity and divine lies; they shall not be in the assembly of my people, nor shall they be written in the record of the house of Israel, nor shall they enter the land of Israel; and you shall know that I am the Lord GOD.  
Because they have seduced my people, saying, "Peace," when there was no peace; and one built a wall, and others daubed it with untempered mortar:  
Say to those who daub it with untempered mortar that it shall fall; there shall be an overflowing shower, and you, O great hailstones, shall fall, and a stormy wind shall tear it down.  
Lo, when the wall has fallen, will it not be said to you, "Where is the daubing with which you have daubed it?"  
Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD: I will rend it with a stormy wind in my fury; and there shall be an overflowing shower in my anger, and great hailstones in my fury to consume it.  
So will I break down the wall that you have daubed with untempered mortar, and bring it down to the ground, so that its foundation shall be uncovered; it shall fall, and you shall be consumed in the midst of it; and you shall know that I am the LORD.  
Thus will I accomplish my wrath upon the wall and upon those who have daubed it with untempered mortar, and I will say to you, "The wall is no more, nor are those who daubed it."  
Specifically, the prophets of Israel who prophesy concerning Jerusalem and see visions of peace for her, when there is no peace, says the Lord GOD.  
Likewise, you son of man, set your face against the daughters of your people who prophesy out of their own hearts; and prophesy against them,  
And say, "Thus says the Lord GOD: Woe to the women who sew pillows for all armholes and make kerchiefs upon the heads of every stature to hunt souls! Will you hunt the souls of my people and save the souls alive that come to you?  
And will you pollute me among my people for handfuls of barley and pieces of bread, to slay the souls that should not die, and to save the souls alive that should not live, by your lies to my people who listen to your lies?  
Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I am against your pillows with which you hunt souls to make them fly; I will tear them from your arms and let the souls go, even the souls that you hunt to make them fly.  
Your kerchiefs also will I tear, and I will deliver my people out of your hand, and they shall no longer be in your hand to be hunted; and you shall know that I am the LORD.  
Because with lies you have made the heart of the righteous sad, whom I have not made sad; and you have strengthened the hands of the wicked, so that he should not return from his wicked way, by promising him life.  
Therefore, you shall see no more vanity nor divine divinations; for I will deliver my people out of your hand, and you shall know that I am the LORD.