Now Joab, the son of Zeruiah, noticed that the king's heart was inclined toward Absalom.  
Joab sent for a wise woman from Tekoah and instructed her, "Please pretend to be a mourner, wear mourning clothes, and do not anoint yourself with oil; act like a woman who has mourned for a long time for the dead."  
"Go to the king and speak in this manner to him." So Joab provided her with the words to say.  
When the woman from Tekoah spoke to the king, she fell on her face to the ground, showed respect, and said, "Help, O king."  
The king asked her, "What troubles you?" She replied, "I am indeed a widow, and my husband is dead."  
"Your servant had two sons, and they fought together in the field, and there was no one to separate them; one struck the other and killed him."  
"Now the whole family has risen against your servant, saying, 'Hand over the one who killed his brother so we can put him to death for the life of his brother whom he killed.' They want to destroy the heir as well, and thus extinguish the last ember I have left, leaving my husband with neither name nor remnant on the earth."  
The king said to the woman, "Go to your house, and I will give orders concerning you."  
The woman of Tekoah replied to the king, "My lord, O king, let the iniquity be on me and my father's house; let the king and his throne be guiltless."  
The king said, "Whoever speaks to you, bring him to me, and he shall not harm you anymore."  
Then she said, "I pray you, let the king remember the LORD your God, so that the avengers of blood do not destroy any more, lest they kill my son." He replied, "As the LORD lives, not one hair of your son shall fall to the ground."  
The woman said, "Let your servant speak one word to my lord the king." He said, "Speak."  
The woman asked, "Why then have you thought such a thing against the people of God? For the king speaks as if he is at fault, in that he does not bring back his banished."  
"For we must all die, and are like water spilled on the ground, which cannot be gathered up again; God does not respect any person, yet He devises means so that His banished are not expelled from Him."  
"Now that I have come to speak to my lord the king about this matter, it is because the people have made me afraid. Your servant said, 'I will now speak to the king; perhaps the king will grant the request of his servant.'"  
"For the king will listen, to deliver his servant from the hand of the man who would destroy me and my son together from the inheritance of God."  
"Then your servant said, 'The word of my lord the king will be comforting, for my lord the king is like an angel of God, discerning good and evil; may the LORD your God be with you.'"  
The king answered the woman, "Do not hide from me what I am about to ask you." The woman replied, "Let my lord the king speak."  
The king asked, "Is not the hand of Joab with you in all this?" The woman answered, "As your soul lives, my lord the king, no one can turn to the right or to the left from anything that my lord the king has spoken; for your servant Joab commanded me and put all these words in the mouth of your servant."  
"To bring about this form of speech, your servant Joab has done this thing; and my lord is wise, like the wisdom of an angel of God, to know all things that are on the earth."  
The king said to Joab, "Behold, I have granted this request; go therefore, and bring the young man Absalom back."  
Joab fell to the ground on his face, bowed himself, and thanked the king, saying, "Today your servant knows that I have found favor in your sight, my lord, O king, because you have fulfilled the request of your servant."  
So Joab arose and went to Geshur, and brought Absalom to Jerusalem.  
The king said, "Let him return to his own house, and let him not see my face." So Absalom returned to his own house and did not see the king's face.  
But in all Israel, there was no one as praised for beauty as Absalom; from the sole of his foot to the crown of his head, there was no blemish in him.  
When he cut his hair (for it was customary to cut it at the end of every year because it was heavy on him), he weighed the hair of his head at two hundred shekels by the king's weight.  
Absalom had three sons and one daughter, whose name was Tamar; she was a woman of beautiful appearance.  
Absalom lived in Jerusalem for two full years and did not see the king's face.  
Therefore, Absalom sent for Joab to send him to the king, but Joab would not come to him; and when he sent again the second time, he still would not come.  
So he said to his servants, "Look, Joab's field is near mine, and he has barley there; go and set it on fire." And Absalom's servants set the field on fire.  
Then Joab arose, went to Absalom's house, and asked him, "Why have your servants set my field on fire?"  
Absalom answered Joab, "Behold, I sent to you, saying, 'Come here, that I may send you to the king to ask, "Why have I come from Geshur? It would have been better for me to remain there. Now therefore, let me see the king's face; and if there is any iniquity in me, let him kill me."'"  
So Joab came to the king and told him; and when he called for Absalom, he came to the king, bowed himself on his face to the ground before the king, and the king kissed Absalom.