And Moses gathered all the congregation of the children of Israel together and said to them, "These are the words which the LORD has commanded you to do."
Six days shall work be done, but on the seventh day there shall be a holy day for you, a sabbath of rest to the LORD; whoever does work on that day shall be put to death.
You shall kindle no fire throughout your dwellings on the sabbath day.
And Moses spoke to all the congregation of the children of Israel, saying, "This is what the LORD has commanded:
Take from among you an offering to the LORD; whoever is of a willing heart, let him bring it as an offering to the LORD: gold, silver, and bronze,
and blue, purple, scarlet, fine linen, and goats' hair,
and rams' skins dyed red, badgers' skins, and acacia wood,
and oil for the light, spices for the anointing oil, and for the sweet incense,
and onyx stones, and stones to be set for the ephod and for the breastplate.
And every wise-hearted among you shall come and make all that the LORD has commanded:
the tabernacle, its tent, its covering, its clasps, its boards, its bars, its pillars, and its sockets,
the ark and its poles, with the mercy seat and the veil of the covering,
the table and its poles, all its vessels, and the showbread,
the lampstand for the light, its utensils, and its lamps, with the oil for the light,
and the altar of incense, its poles, the anointing oil, the sweet incense, and the hanging for the door at the entrance of the tabernacle,
the altar of burnt offering, with its bronze grating, its poles, and all its vessels, the basin and its stand,
the hangings of the court, its pillars, their sockets, and the hanging for the door of the court,
the pegs of the tabernacle, the pegs of the court, and their cords,
the garments of service for ministering in the holy place, the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his sons to minister in the priest's office."
And all the congregation of the children of Israel departed from the presence of Moses.
And they came, everyone whose heart stirred him up, and everyone whose spirit made him willing, and they brought the LORD's offering for the work of the tabernacle of the congregation, for all its service, and for the holy garments.
And they came, both men and women, as many as were willing-hearted, and brought bracelets, earrings, rings, and tablets, all jewels of gold; and every man who offered an offering of gold to the LORD.
And every man with whom was found blue, purple, scarlet, fine linen, goats' hair, red skins of rams, and badgers' skins brought them.
Everyone who offered an offering of silver and bronze brought the LORD's offering; and every man with whom was found acacia wood for any work of the service brought it.
And all the women who were wise-hearted spun with their hands and brought what they had spun, both blue, purple, scarlet, and fine linen.
And all the women whose hearts stirred them up in wisdom spun goats' hair.
And the rulers brought onyx stones and stones to be set for the ephod and for the breastplate,
and spices and oil for the light, for the anointing oil, and for the sweet incense.
The children of Israel brought a willing offering to the LORD, every man and woman whose heart made them willing to bring for all manner of work, which the LORD had commanded to be made by the hand of Moses.
And Moses said to the children of Israel, "See, the LORD has called by name Bezaleel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah;
and He has filled him with the Spirit of God, in wisdom, understanding, knowledge, and in all manner of workmanship;
to devise artistic works, to work in gold, silver, and bronze,
in cutting stones to set them, and in carving wood to make any manner of artistic work.
And He has put in his heart the ability to teach, both he and Aholiab, the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan.
He has filled them with wisdom of heart to work all manner of work, of the engraver, the skilled craftsman, and the embroiderer, in blue, purple, scarlet, and fine linen, and of the weaver, as well as those who do any work and those who devise artistic designs.
