And it came to pass that, while he was praying in a certain place, when he finished, one of his disciples said to him, "Lord, teach us to pray, as John also taught his disciples."
He replied, "When you pray, say: Our Father who is in heaven, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come. Your will be done, on earth as it is in heaven.
Give us each day our daily bread.
And forgive us our sins, for we also forgive everyone who is indebted to us. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil."
He then said to them, "Which of you has a friend, and goes to him at midnight, saying, 'Friend, lend me three loaves;
For a friend of mine has come to me on his journey, and I have nothing to set before him'?
And he from within will answer and say, 'Do not trouble me; the door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed; I cannot rise and give you anything.'
I tell you, though he will not rise and give him because he is his friend, yet because of his persistence, he will rise and give him as much as he needs.
And I say to you, Ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened to you.
For everyone who asks receives; and he who seeks finds; and to him who knocks, it will be opened.
If a son asks for bread from any of you who is a father, will he give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, will he give him a serpent instead of a fish?
Or if he asks for an egg, will he offer him a scorpion?
If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him?"
And he was casting out a demon, and it was mute. When the demon had gone out, the mute spoke, and the people marveled.
But some of them said, "He casts out demons by Beelzebub, the chief of the demons."
And others, testing him, sought from him a sign from heaven.
But he, knowing their thoughts, said to them, "Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation, and a house divided against a house falls.
If Satan is also divided against himself, how will his kingdom stand? For you say that I cast out demons by Beelzebub.
And if I cast out demons by Beelzebub, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore they will be your judges.
But if I cast out demons with the finger of God, surely the kingdom of God has come upon you.
When a strong man, fully armed, guards his own palace, his goods are in peace.
But when a stronger than he comes upon him and overcomes him, he takes from him all his armor in which he trusted, and divides his spoils.
He who is not with me is against me, and he who does not gather with me scatters.
When an unclean spirit goes out of a man, he goes through dry places, seeking rest; and finding none, he says, 'I will return to my house from which I came.'
And when he comes, he finds it swept and put in order.
Then he goes and takes with him seven other spirits more wicked than himself, and they enter and dwell there; and the last state of that man is worse than the first."
As he spoke these things, a certain woman from the crowd raised her voice and said to him, "Blessed is the womb that bore you, and the breasts which nursed you!"
But he said, "More than that, blessed are those who hear the word of God and keep it."
And when the crowds were thick together, he began to say, "This is an evil generation; they seek a sign, and no sign will be given to it except the sign of Jonah the prophet.
For as Jonah became a sign to the Ninevites, so also the Son of Man will be to this generation.
The queen of the South will rise up in the judgment with the men of this generation and condemn them; for she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and indeed, a greater than Solomon is here.
The men of Nineveh will rise up in the judgment with this generation and condemn it; for they repented at the preaching of Jonah; and indeed, a greater than Jonah is here.
No one, when he has lit a lamp, puts it in a secret place or under a basket, but on a lampstand, that those who enter may see the light.
The lamp of the body is the eye. Therefore, when your eye is good, your whole body also is full of light; but when your eye is bad, your body also is full of darkness.
Take heed, therefore, that the light which is in you is not darkness.
If your whole body is full of light, having no part dark, the whole body will be full of light, as when the bright shining of a lamp gives you light."
As he spoke, a certain Pharisee asked him to dine with him. So he went in and sat down to eat.
When the Pharisee saw it, he marveled that he had not first washed before dinner.
And the Lord said to him, "Now you Pharisees make the outside of the cup and dish clean, but your inward part is full of greed and wickedness.
Fools! Did not he who made the outside make the inside also?
But
