Awake, awake; put on your strength, O Zion; adorn yourself with your beautiful garments, O Jerusalem, the holy city: for from now on, the uncircumcised and the unclean shall no longer enter you.  
Shake off the dust; rise up and sit down, O Jerusalem: free yourself from the chains around your neck, O captive daughter of Zion.  
For thus says the LORD, you have sold yourselves for nothing; and you shall be redeemed without cost.  
For thus says the Lord GOD, My people went down to Egypt in the past to dwell there; and the Assyrian oppressed them without reason.  
Now therefore, what do I have here, says the LORD, that my people is taken away for nothing? Those who rule over them make them cry out, says the LORD; and my name is continually blasphemed every day.  
Therefore, my people shall know my name: they shall know on that day that I am the one who speaks: behold, it is I.  
How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him who brings good news, who proclaims peace; who brings good tidings of good, who proclaims salvation; who says to Zion, Your God reigns!  
Your watchmen shall lift up their voices; together they shall sing: for they shall see eye to eye when the LORD restores Zion.  
Break forth into joy, sing together, you waste places of Jerusalem: for the LORD has comforted his people, he has redeemed Jerusalem.  
The LORD has bared his holy arm in the sight of all the nations; and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of our God.  
Depart, depart, go out from there, touch no unclean thing; go out from the midst of her; be clean, you who bear the vessels of the LORD.  
For you shall not go out in haste, nor go by flight: for the LORD will go before you; and the God of Israel will be your rear guard.  
Behold, my servant shall act wisely, he shall be exalted and lifted up, and shall be very high.  
As many were astonished at you; his appearance was so marred beyond that of any man, and his form beyond that of the sons of men:  
So shall he sprinkle many nations; kings shall shut their mouths at him: for what had not been told them they shall see; and what they had not heard they shall consider.  