After these events, Jesus walked in Galilee, for he chose not to walk in Judea because the Jews sought to kill him.  
Now the Jewish feast of tabernacles was approaching.  
His brothers therefore said to him, "Depart from here and go to Judea, so that your disciples may see the works you are doing."  
For no one does anything in secret if he seeks to be known publicly. If you do these things, show yourself to the world.  
For even his brothers did not believe in him.  
Then Jesus said to them, "My time has not yet come, but your time is always ready."  
The world cannot hate you, but it hates me because I testify about it that its works are evil.  
"Go up to this feast; I am not going up to this feast yet, for my time has not yet fully come."  
After he said these things, he remained in Galilee.  
But when his brothers had gone up, he also went up to the feast, not publicly, but as if in secret.  
Then the Jews sought him at the feast and asked, "Where is he?"  
And there was much murmuring among the people about him; some said, "He is a good man," while others said, "No, he deceives the people."  
However, no one spoke openly about him for fear of the Jews.  
Now, about the middle of the feast, Jesus went up to the temple and taught.  
And the Jews were amazed, saying, "How does this man know letters, having never learned?"  
Jesus answered them, "My teaching is not mine, but his who sent me."  
"If anyone is willing to do his will, he shall know about the teaching, whether it is from God or whether I speak on my own."  
He who speaks on his own seeks his own glory, but he who seeks the glory of the one who sent him is true, and there is no unrighteousness in him.  
"Did not Moses give you the law? Yet none of you keeps the law. Why are you seeking to kill me?"  
The people answered and said, "You have a demon. Who is seeking to kill you?"  
Jesus answered and said to them, "I performed one work, and you all marvel."  
Moses gave you circumcision (not because it is from Moses, but from the fathers), and you circumcise a man on the Sabbath.  
If a man receives circumcision on the Sabbath so that the law of Moses is not broken, are you angry with me because I made a man completely well on the Sabbath?  
"Do not judge according to appearance, but judge with righteous judgment."  
Then some of the people of Jerusalem said, "Is this not the man whom they seek to kill?"  
But look, he speaks boldly, and they say nothing to him. Do the rulers really know that this is the Christ?  
However, we know where this man is from; but when the Christ comes, no one will know where he is from.  
Then Jesus cried out in the temple as he taught, saying, "You both know me and know where I am from. I have not come of myself, but he who sent me is true, whom you do not know."  
"But I know him, for I am from him, and he sent me."  
Then they sought to arrest him, but no one laid hands on him because his hour had not yet come.  
And many of the people believed in him and said, "When the Christ comes, will he do more signs than these which this man has done?"  
The Pharisees heard the crowd murmuring such things about him, and the Pharisees and the chief priests sent officers to arrest him.  
Then Jesus said to them, "I will be with you a little longer, and then I am going to him who sent me.  
You will seek me and will not find me, and where I am, you cannot come."  
Then the Jews said among themselves, "Where does he intend to go that we will not find him? Will he go to the dispersed among the Greeks and teach the Greeks?"  
"What is this saying that he said, 'You will seek me and will not find me, and where I am, you cannot come'?"  
On the last day, that great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried out, saying, "If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink."  
"He who believes in me, as the Scripture has said, out of his heart will flow rivers of living water."  
(But this he spoke concerning the Spirit, whom those believing in him would receive; for the Holy Spirit was not yet given, because Jesus was not yet glorified.)  
Many of the people, therefore, when they heard this saying, said, "Truly, this is the Prophet."  
Others said, "This is the Christ." But some said, "Will the Christ come out of Galilee?"  
"Has not the Scripture said that the Christ comes from the seed of David and from the town of Bethlehem, where David was?"  
So there was a division among the people because of him.  
And some of them wanted to arrest him, but no one laid hands on him.  
Then the officers came to the chief priests and Pharisees, and they said to them, "Why have you not brought him?"  
The officers answered, "No man ever spoke like this man!"  
Then the Pharisees answered them, "Are you also deceived?  
Have any of the rulers or the Pharisees believed in him?  
But this crowd that does not know the law is accursed."  
Nicodemus, who came to Jesus by night, being one of them, said to them,  
"Does our law judge a man before it hears him and knows what he is doing?"  
They answered and said to him, "Are you also from Galilee? Search and look, for no prophet arises out of Galilee."  
And everyone went to his own house.