Now the LORD had spoken to Abram, saying, "Leave your country, your relatives, and your father's house, and go to a land that I will show you.  
I will make you into a great nation, bless you, and make your name great; you will be a blessing.  
I will bless those who bless you and curse those who curse you; through you, all families of the earth will be blessed."  
So Abram left, as the LORD had instructed him, and Lot went with him. Abram was seventy-five years old when he left Haran.  
Abram took his wife Sarai, his nephew Lot, and all the possessions they had accumulated, along with the people they had acquired in Haran; they set out for the land of Canaan and arrived there.  
Abram traveled through the land as far as the site of Shechem, to the oak of Moreh. At that time, the Canaanites were in the land.  
The LORD appeared to Abram and said, "To your descendants, I will give this land." So he built an altar there to the LORD, who had appeared to him.  
He then moved on from there to a hill country east of Bethel and pitched his tent, with Bethel on the west and Ai on the east. There he built an altar to the LORD and called on the name of the LORD.  
Abram continued his journey southward.  
There was a famine in the land, and Abram went down to Egypt to live there for a while, as the famine was severe.  
As he was about to enter Egypt, he said to Sarai, his wife, "Look, I know you are a beautiful woman.  
When the Egyptians see you, they will say, 'This is his wife,' and they will kill me but let you live.  
Please say you are my sister, so that it may go well with me because of you, and my life will be spared for your sake."  
When Abram arrived in Egypt, the Egyptians noticed that Sarai was very beautiful.  
Pharaoh's officials saw her and praised her to Pharaoh, and she was taken into Pharaoh's palace.  
He treated Abram well for her sake, and Abram acquired sheep, cattle, male and female donkeys, male and female servants, and camels.  
But the LORD inflicted serious diseases on Pharaoh and his household because of Sarai, Abram's wife.  
So Pharaoh summoned Abram and asked, "What have you done to me? Why didn't you tell me she was your wife?  
Why did you say, 'She is my sister,' so that I took her to be my wife? Now, here is your wife; take her and go."  
Then Pharaoh gave orders about Abram to his men, and they sent him on his way, along with his wife and all his possessions.