This second letter, dear friends, I now write to you; in both of these, I aim to awaken your sincere minds by way of reminder:
So that you may remember the words spoken previously by the holy prophets, and the commandment given by us, the apostles of the Lord and Savior:
Knowing this first, that in the last days there will be scoffers, following their own desires,
And saying, "Where is the promise of His coming? For since our ancestors fell asleep, everything continues as it has from the beginning of creation."
For they deliberately overlook this fact, that by the word of God the heavens existed long ago, and the earth was formed out of water and through water:
By these means, the world that then existed was flooded with water and perished:
But the heavens and the earth that now exist are being kept in store by the same word, reserved for fire on the day of judgment and the destruction of ungodly men.
But, dear friends, do not forget this one thing: that with the Lord, one day is like a thousand years, and a thousand years are like one day.
The Lord is not slow in keeping His promise, as some understand slowness; instead, He is patient with you, not wanting anyone to perish, but everyone to come to repentance.
But the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night; the heavens will disappear with a roar, the elements will be destroyed by fire, and the earth and everything in it will be laid bare.
Since all these things are to be dissolved, what kind of people ought you to be in holy conduct and godliness,
As you look forward to the day of God and speed its coming, when the heavens will be dissolved by fire and the elements will melt in the heat?
Nevertheless, according to His promise, we are looking for new heavens and a new earth, where righteousness dwells.
Therefore, dear friends, since you are looking forward to these things, make every effort to be found spotless, blameless, and at peace with Him.
And consider that the patience of our Lord is salvation; just as our dear brother Paul, according to the wisdom given to him, has written to you,
As he does in all his letters, speaking in them of these matters; there are some things in them that are hard to understand, which the ignorant and unstable twist to their own destruction, as they do the other Scriptures.
Therefore, dear friends, since you already know this, be on your guard so that you may not be carried away by the error of the lawless and fall from your secure position.
But grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To Him be glory both now and forever. Amen.
