And Samuel said to all Israel, "Behold, I have listened to your voice in all that you said to me, and I have appointed a king over you.  
And now, behold, the king walks before you; I am old and gray-headed, and my sons are with you. I have led you from my childhood until this day.  
Here I am: testify against me before the LORD and before His anointed. Whose ox have I taken? Whose donkey have I taken? Whom have I defrauded? Whom have I oppressed? From whose hand have I received any bribe to blind my eyes? If so, I will restore it to you."  
And they replied, "You have not defrauded us, nor oppressed us, nor taken anything from any man's hand."  
He said to them, "The LORD is witness against you, and His anointed is witness this day, that you have not found anything in my hand." And they answered, "He is witness."  
Samuel said to the people, "It is the LORD who appointed Moses and Aaron and brought your ancestors up out of the land of Egypt.  
Now, therefore, stand still, that I may reason with you before the LORD about all the righteous acts of the LORD, which He did for you and your ancestors.  
When Jacob entered Egypt and your ancestors cried out to the LORD, He sent Moses and Aaron, who brought your ancestors out of Egypt and made them dwell in this place.  
But when they forgot the LORD their God, He sold them into the hands of Sisera, the commander of the army of Hazor, and into the hands of the Philistines, and into the hands of the king of Moab, and they fought against them.  
Then they cried out to the LORD and said, "We have sinned, for we have forsaken the LORD and served Baalim and Ashtaroth; but now deliver us from the hand of our enemies, and we will serve You."  
The LORD sent Jerubbaal, Bedan, Jephthah, and Samuel, and delivered you from the hand of your enemies on every side, and you dwelled in safety.  
When you saw that Nahash, the king of the Ammonites, came against you, you said to me, "No, but a king shall reign over us," when the LORD your God was your king.  
Now, therefore, behold the king you have chosen and desired! The LORD has set a king over you.  
If you will fear the LORD, serve Him, obey His voice, and not rebel against the commandment of the LORD, then both you and the king who reigns over you will continue following the LORD your God.  
But if you do not obey the voice of the LORD and rebel against His commandment, then the hand of the LORD will be against you, as it was against your ancestors.  
Now, therefore, stand and see this great thing which the LORD will do before your eyes.  
Is it not the wheat harvest today? I will call to the LORD, and He will send thunder and rain; so you may perceive and see that your wickedness is great, which you have done in the sight of the LORD by asking for a king.  
So Samuel called to the LORD, and the LORD sent thunder and rain that day; and all the people greatly feared the LORD and Samuel.  
All the people said to Samuel, "Pray for your servants to the LORD your God, that we may not die, for we have added to all our sins this evil by asking for a king."  
Samuel said to the people, "Do not be afraid; you have done all this wickedness. Yet do not turn aside from following the LORD, but serve the LORD with all your heart.  
And do not turn aside, for then you would go after worthless things that cannot profit or deliver; they are worthless.  
For the LORD will not forsake His people for His great name's sake, because it has pleased the LORD to make you His people.  
Moreover, as for me, God forbid that I should sin against the LORD by ceasing to pray for you; but I will teach you the good and right way.  
Only fear the LORD and serve Him in truth with all your heart, for consider what great things He has done for you.  
But if you continue to do wickedly, you will be consumed, both you and your king."