And Israel set out on his journey with all that he possessed, arriving at Beersheba, where he offered sacrifices to the God of his father Isaac.  
God spoke to Israel in visions during the night, calling, "Jacob, Jacob." Jacob replied, "Here I am."  
God said, "I am God, the God of your father. Do not be afraid to go down to Egypt, for I will make you into a great nation there.  
I will accompany you to Egypt, and I will surely bring you back again; Joseph will close your eyes."  
Jacob rose from Beersheba, and the sons of Israel carried their father Jacob, along with their little ones and wives, in the wagons that Pharaoh had sent to transport him.  
They took their livestock and possessions, which they had acquired in the land of Canaan, and journeyed to Egypt, Jacob and all his descendants with him.  
His sons, grandsons, daughters, and granddaughters, all his descendants, he brought with him to Egypt.  
These are the names of the children of Israel who entered Egypt, Jacob and his sons: Reuben, Jacob's firstborn.  
The sons of Reuben were Hanoch, Phallu, Hezron, and Carmi.  
The sons of Simeon were Jemuel, Jamin, Ohad, Jachin, Zohar, and Shaul, the son of a Canaanite woman.  
The sons of Levi were Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.  
The sons of Judah were Er, Onan, Shelah, Pharez, and Zarah; but Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan. The sons of Pharez were Hezron and Hamul.  
The sons of Issachar were Tola, Phuvah, Job, and Shimron.  
The sons of Zebulun were Sered, Elon, and Jahleel.  
These are the sons of Leah, whom she bore to Jacob in Padanaram, along with his daughter Dinah; all the souls of his sons and daughters totaled thirty-three.  
The sons of Gad were Ziphion, Haggi, Shuni, Ezbon, Eri, Arodi, and Areli.  
The sons of Asher were Jimnah, Ishuah, Isui, Beriah, and their sister Serah; the sons of Beriah were Heber and Malchiel.  
These are the sons of Zilpah, whom Laban gave to his daughter Leah, and she bore these to Jacob, totaling sixteen souls.  
The sons of Rachel, Jacob's wife, were Joseph and Benjamin.  
In the land of Egypt, Joseph had two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim, whom Asenath, the daughter of Potipherah, priest of On, bore to him.  
The sons of Benjamin were Belah, Becher, Ashbel, Gera, Naaman, Ehi, Rosh, Muppim, Huppim, and Ard.  
These are the sons of Rachel born to Jacob: all the souls totaled fourteen.  
The sons of Dan were Hushim.  
The sons of Naphtali were Jahzeel, Guni, Jezer, and Shillem.  
These are the sons of Bilhah, whom Laban gave to Rachel, and she bore these to Jacob: all the souls totaled seven.  
All the souls that came with Jacob to Egypt, who were born from his loins, excluding Jacob's sons' wives, totaled sixty-six.  
The sons of Joseph, born to him in Egypt, were two souls; thus, all the souls of Jacob's household that entered Egypt totaled seventy.  
He sent Judah ahead of him to Joseph, to direct his face toward Goshen; they arrived in the land of Goshen.  
Joseph prepared his chariot and went to meet his father Israel in Goshen; he presented himself to him, fell on his neck, and wept for a long time.  
Israel said to Joseph, "Now let me die, since I have seen your face and know you are still alive."  
Joseph said to his brothers and his father's household, "I will go up and inform Pharaoh, saying, 'My brothers and my father's household, who were in the land of Canaan, have come to me;  
and the men are shepherds, for their trade has been to tend livestock; they have brought their flocks, herds, and all they possess.'  
When Pharaoh calls you and asks, 'What is your occupation?'  
You shall say, 'Your servants have been shepherds from our youth until now, both we and our fathers,' so that you may dwell in the land of Goshen, for every shepherd is an abomination to the Egyptians."