After the death of Moses, the servant of the LORD, it came to pass that the LORD spoke to Joshua, the son of Nun, Moses' assistant, saying,  
"Moses, my servant, is dead; now therefore arise, cross this Jordan, you and all this people, to the land that I am giving to them, the children of Israel.  
Every place where the sole of your foot treads, I have given to you, as I promised Moses.  
From the wilderness and this Lebanon to the great river, the river Euphrates, all the land of the Hittites, and to the great sea toward the west, shall be your territory.  
No man shall be able to stand before you all the days of your life: as I was with Moses, so I will be with you; I will not fail you or forsake you.  
Be strong and courageous, for you shall divide this land as an inheritance to this people, which I swore to their fathers to give them.  
Only be strong and very courageous, that you may observe to do according to all the law that Moses, my servant, commanded you; do not turn from it to the right or to the left, that you may prosper wherever you go.  
This book of the law shall not depart from your mouth; you shall meditate on it day and night, so that you may observe to do according to all that is written in it; for then you will make your way prosperous, and then you will have good success.  
Have I not commanded you? Be strong and courageous; do not be afraid, nor be dismayed, for the LORD your God is with you wherever you go."  
Then Joshua commanded the officers of the people, saying,  
"Go through the camp and command the people, saying, 'Prepare provisions, for within three days you shall cross this Jordan to go in and possess the land which the LORD your God is giving you to possess.'"  
And to the Reubenites, the Gadites, and half the tribe of Manasseh, Joshua spoke, saying,  
"Remember the word which Moses, the servant of the LORD, commanded you, saying, 'The LORD your God has given you rest and has given you this land.'  
Your wives, your little ones, and your livestock shall remain in the land which Moses gave you on this side of the Jordan; but you shall cross over before your brethren armed, all the mighty men of valor, and help them;  
until the LORD has given your brethren rest, as He has given you, and they also have possessed the land which the LORD your God is giving them; then you shall return to the land of your possession and enjoy it, which Moses, the servant of the LORD, gave you on this side of the Jordan toward the sunrise."  
And they answered Joshua, saying, "All that you command us we will do, and wherever you send us, we will go.  
Just as we obeyed Moses in all things, so we will obey you; only may the LORD your God be with you, as He was with Moses.  
Whoever rebels against your command and does not heed your words in all that you command him shall be put to death; only be strong and courageous."