Now Benjamin fathered Bela, his firstborn; Ashbel, the second; and Aharah, the third.
Nohah was the fourth, and Rapha the fifth.
The sons of Bela were Addar, Gera, and Abihud,
Abishua, Naaman, and Ahoah,
Gera, Shephuphan, and Huram.
These are the sons of Ehud, the heads of the families of the inhabitants of Geba, who were relocated to Manahath:
Naaman, Ahiah, and Gera; he removed them and fathered Uzza and Ahihud.
Shaharaim fathered children in the land of Moab after sending them away; Hushim and Baara were his wives.
By Hodesh, his wife, he fathered Jobab, Zibia, Mesha, and Malcham,
Jeuz, Shachia, and Mirma. These were his sons, heads of the families.
From Hushim, he fathered Abitub and Elpaal.
The sons of Elpaal were Eber, Misham, and Shamed, who built Ono and Lod, along with their towns:
Beriah and Shema, who were heads of the families of the inhabitants of Aijalon, who drove away the inhabitants of Gath:
Ahio, Shashak, and Jeremoth,
Zebadiah, Arad, and Ader,
Michael, Ispah, and Joha, the sons of Beriah;
Zebadiah, Meshullam, Hezeki, and Heber,
Ishmerai, Jezliah, and Jobab, the sons of Elpaal;
Jakim, Zichri, and Zabdi,
Elienai, Zilthai, and Eliel,
Adaiah, Beraiah, and Shimrath, the sons of Shimhi;
Ishpan, Heber, and Eliel,
Abdon, Zichri, and Hanan,
Hananiah, Elam, and Antothijah,
Iphedeiah and Penuel, the sons of Shashak;
Shamsherai, Shehariah, and Athaliah,
Jaresiah, Eliah, and Zichri, the sons of Jeroham.
These were heads of families, by their generations, chief men. They dwelt in Jerusalem.
At Gibeon lived the father of Gibeon, whose wife's name was Maachah:
His firstborn son was Abdon, followed by Zur, Kish, Baal, and Nadab,
Gedor, Ahio, and Zacher.
Mikloth fathered Shimeah, and these also lived with their brethren in Jerusalem, opposite them.
Ner fathered Kish, Kish fathered Saul, and Saul fathered Jonathan, Malchishua, Abinadab, and Eshbaal.
The son of Jonathan was Meribbaal, and Meribbaal fathered Micah.
The sons of Micah were Pithon, Melech, Tarea, and Ahaz.
Ahaz fathered Jehoadah; Jehoadah fathered Alemeth, Azmaveth, and Zimri; Zimri fathered Moza,
Moza fathered Binea: Rapha was his son, Eleasah his son, and Azel his son:
Azel had six sons, whose names were Azrikam, Bocheru, Ishmael, Sheariah, Obadiah, and Hanan. All these were the sons of Azel.
The sons of Eshek, his brother, were Ulam, his firstborn; Jehush, the second; and Eliphelet, the third.
The sons of Ulam were mighty men of valor, archers, and had many sons and grandsons, totaling one hundred and fifty. All these are the sons of Benjamin.
