Then he led me back through the gate of the outer sanctuary that faces east; and it was closed.
The LORD then said to me, "This gate shall remain closed; it shall not be opened, and no one shall enter through it; for the LORD, the God of Israel, has entered through it, and therefore it shall remain shut."
"This gate is designated for the prince; he shall sit in it to eat bread before the LORD. He shall enter through the porch of this gate and exit by the same way."
Then he brought me to the north gate in front of the house, and I looked, and behold, the glory of the LORD filled the house of the LORD, and I fell on my face.
The LORD said to me, "Son of man, pay close attention, and observe with your eyes and listen with your ears to all that I say to you regarding all the ordinances of the house of the LORD and all its laws; and pay close attention to the entrance of the house, with every exit of the sanctuary."
And you shall say to the rebellious, to the house of Israel, "Thus says the Lord GOD: O house of Israel, you have had enough of all your abominations.
For you have brought into my sanctuary strangers, uncircumcised in heart and uncircumcised in flesh, to pollute it, even my house, when you offer my bread, the fat, and the blood, and you have broken my covenant because of all your abominations."
And you have not kept the charge of my holy things; instead, you have appointed keepers of my charge in my sanctuary for yourselves.
Thus says the Lord GOD: "No stranger, uncircumcised in heart or uncircumcised in flesh, shall enter my sanctuary, of any stranger among the children of Israel."
As for the Levites who went far from me when Israel went astray, following their idols, they shall bear their iniquity.
Yet they shall serve in my sanctuary, having charge at the gates of the house and ministering to the house; they shall slay the burnt offering and the sacrifice for the people, and they shall stand before them to minister to them.
Because they ministered to them before their idols and caused the house of Israel to fall into iniquity, therefore I have lifted my hand against them, says the Lord GOD, and they shall bear their iniquity.
They shall not come near to me to perform the duties of a priest, nor come near any of my holy things in the most holy place; instead, they shall bear their shame and the abominations they have committed.
But I will appoint them as keepers of the charge of the house, for all its service and for all that shall be done therein.
But the priests, the Levites, the sons of Zadok, who kept the charge of my sanctuary when the children of Israel went astray from me, they shall come near to me to minister to me, and they shall stand before me to offer me the fat and the blood, says the Lord GOD.
They shall enter my sanctuary and come near my table to minister to me, and they shall keep my charge.
It shall come to pass that when they enter the gates of the inner court, they shall be clothed in linen garments; no wool shall be upon them while they minister in the gates of the inner court and within.
They shall have linen bonnets on their heads and linen breeches on their loins; they shall not wear anything that causes sweat.
When they go out to the outer court, to the people, they shall take off the garments in which they ministered, and lay them in the holy chambers, and they shall put on other garments; they shall not sanctify the people with their garments.
Neither shall they shave their heads, nor allow their locks to grow long; they shall only trim their hair.
Neither shall any priest drink wine when they enter the inner court.
They shall not take a widow or a divorced woman as their wives; instead, they shall take maidens from the seed of the house of Israel, or a widow who had a priest before.
They shall teach my people the difference between the holy and the profane, and help them discern between the unclean and the clean.
In matters of controversy, they shall stand in judgment and judge according to my judgments; they shall keep my laws and my statutes in all my assemblies, and they shall hallow my sabbaths.
They shall not come near any dead person to defile themselves, except for a father, mother, son, daughter, brother, or sister who has had no husband; they may defile themselves.
After he is cleansed, they shall count for him seven days.
On the day he goes into the sanctuary, to the inner court, to minister in the sanctuary, he shall offer his sin offering, says the Lord GOD.
It shall be their inheritance: I am their inheritance, and you shall give them no possession in Israel; I am their possession.
They shall eat the meat offering, the sin offering, and the trespass offering; every dedicated thing in Israel shall be theirs.
The first of all the firstfruits of everything, and every oblation of all, of every sort of your oblations, shall belong to the priest; you shall also give the priest the first of your dough, that he may cause the blessing to rest in your house.
The priests shall not eat anything that dies of itself or is torn, whether it be fowl or beast.
