When morning arrived, all the chief priests and elders of the people conspired against Jesus to have him executed.
After binding him, they led him away and handed him over to Pontius Pilate, the governor.
Then Judas, who had betrayed him, realized that Jesus was condemned, felt remorse, and returned the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and elders.
He said, "I have sinned by betraying innocent blood." They replied, "What is that to us? You take care of it."
He threw the silver pieces down in the temple, left, and went to hang himself.
The chief priests picked up the silver pieces and said, "It is not lawful to put them into the treasury, since it is the price of blood."
They conferred and used the money to buy the potter's field as a burial place for strangers.
Thus, that field was called "The Field of Blood" to this day.
Then what was spoken by the prophet Jeremiah was fulfilled, saying, "They took the thirty pieces of silver, the price of him who was valued, whom the children of Israel valued."
And they gave the money for the potter's field, as the Lord commanded me.
Jesus stood before the governor, and the governor asked him, "Are you the King of the Jews?" Jesus replied, "You say so."
When he was accused by the chief priests and elders, he gave no answer.
Then Pilate said to him, "Do you not hear how many things they testify against you?"
But Jesus did not respond, which amazed the governor.
Now at that feast, it was customary for the governor to release a prisoner to the people, whom they wished.
At that time, they had a notorious prisoner named Barabbas.
So when they had gathered, Pilate asked them, "Whom do you want me to release to you? Barabbas, or Jesus who is called Christ?"
For he knew that it was out of envy that they had handed Jesus over.
While he was sitting on the judgment seat, his wife sent him a message, saying, "Have nothing to do with that righteous man, for I have suffered many things today in a dream because of him."
But the chief priests and elders persuaded the crowd to ask for Barabbas and to have Jesus destroyed.
The governor asked them, "Which of the two do you want me to release to you?" They replied, "Barabbas."
Pilate asked them, "What then shall I do with Jesus who is called Christ?" They all answered, "Let him be crucified!"
The governor said, "Why? What evil has he done?" But they shouted all the more, "Let him be crucified!"
When Pilate saw that he was getting nowhere, but that a riot was starting, he took water and washed his hands in front of the crowd, saying, "I am innocent of this man's blood; it is your responsibility!"
And all the people answered, "His blood be on us and on our children!"
Then he released Barabbas to them, but he had Jesus flogged and handed him over to be crucified.
Then the governor's soldiers took Jesus into the Praetorium and gathered the whole battalion around him.
They stripped him and put a scarlet robe on him.
And weaving a crown of thorns, they placed it on his head and put a reed in his right hand; they knelt before him and mocked him, saying, "Hail, King of the Jews!"
They spat on him and took the reed and struck him on the head.
After they had mocked him, they stripped him of the robe and put his own clothes on him, and led him away to crucify him.
As they were going out, they found a man from Cyrene named Simon; they compelled him to carry his cross.
When they came to a place called Golgotha, which means "the place of the skull,"
They offered him wine mixed with gall to drink, but when he tasted it, he would not drink it.
And when they had crucified him, they divided his garments among them by casting lots, fulfilling what was spoken by the prophet: "They divided my garments among them, and for my clothing they cast lots."
Sitting down, they kept watch over him there.
They placed a sign above his head that read, "THIS IS JESUS, THE KING OF THE JEWS."
Then two robbers were crucified with him, one on the right and one on the left.
Those who passed by hurled insults at him, shaking their heads,
And saying, "You who are going to destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days, save yourself! If you are the Son of God, come down from the cross!"
In the same way, the chief priests, the teachers of the law, and the elders mocked him. They said,
"He saved others, but he cannot save himself! He is the King of Israel! Let him come down now from the cross, and we will believe in him."
"He trusts in God; let God rescue him now if he wants him, for he said, 'I am the Son of God.'"
In the same way, the robbers who were crucified with him also heaped insults on him.
From the sixth hour until the ninth hour, darkness came over all the land.
About the ninth hour, Jesus cried out in a loud voice, "Eli, Eli, lama sabachthani?" which means, "My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?"
When some of those standing there heard this, they said, "He is calling Elijah."
Immediately, one of them ran and got a sponge. He filled it with vinegar, put it on a reed, and offered it to Jesus to drink.
The rest said, "Now leave him alone. Let's see if Elijah comes to save him."
When Jesus had cried out again in a loud voice, he gave up his spirit.
At that moment, the curtain of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. The earth shook, the rocks split,
And the tombs broke open; the bodies of many holy people who had died were raised to life.
They came out of the tombs after Jesus' resurrection and went into the holy city and appeared to many people.
When the centurion and those with him who were guarding Jesus saw the earthquake and all that had happened, they were terrified and exclaimed, "Surely he was the Son of God!"
Many women were there, watching from a distance. They had followed Jesus from Galilee to care for his needs.
Among them were Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James and Joseph, and the mother of the sons of Zebedee.
As evening approached, a rich man from Arimathea named Joseph, who had himself become a disciple of Jesus,
Went to Pilate and asked for Jesus' body. Pilate ordered that it be given to him.
Joseph took the body, wrapped it in a clean linen cloth,
And placed it in his own new tomb that he had cut out of the rock. He rolled a big stone in front of the entrance to the tomb and went away.
Mary Magdalene and the other Mary were sitting there opposite the tomb.
The next day, the one after Preparation Day, the chief priests and the Pharisees went to Pilate.
"Sir," they said, "we remember that while he was still alive that deceiver said, 'After three days I will rise again.'
So give the order for the tomb to be made secure until the third day. Otherwise, his disciples may come and steal the body and tell the people that he has been raised from the dead. This last deception will be worse than the first."
Pilate answered, "Take a guard. Go, make the tomb as secure as you know how."
So they went and made the tomb secure by sealing the stone and posting the guard.
