O God, why have you forsaken us forever? Why does your anger burn against the sheep of your pasture?  
Remember your congregation, which you have redeemed from ancient times; the rod of your inheritance, which you have reclaimed; this Mount Zion, where you have chosen to dwell.  
Lift up your feet to the everlasting desolations; all that the enemy has done wickedly in the sanctuary.  
Your enemies roar in the midst of your congregations; they raise their banners as signs.  
A man was renowned according to how he wielded axes against the thick trees.  
But now they demolish the carved work all at once with axes and hammers.  
They have set fire to your sanctuary, defiling the dwelling place of your name by casting it to the ground.  
They said in their hearts, "Let us destroy them together": they have burned all the synagogues of God in the land.  
We do not see our signs; there is no longer any prophet; nor is there anyone among us who knows how long this will last.  
O God, how long will the adversary taunt us? Will the enemy blaspheme your name forever?  
Why do you withdraw your hand, even your right hand? Take it out of your bosom.  
For God is my King from ancient times, working salvation in the midst of the earth.  
You divided the sea by your strength; you broke the heads of the dragons in the waters.  
You shattered the heads of Leviathan and gave him as food to the people dwelling in the wilderness.  
You cleaved the fountain and the flood; you dried up mighty rivers.  
The day is yours; the night also is yours: you have established the light and the sun.  
You have set all the boundaries of the earth; you have made summer and winter.  
Remember this, that the enemy has reproached, O LORD, and that the foolish people have blasphemed your name.  
O do not deliver the soul of your turtledove to the multitude of the wicked; do not forget the congregation of your poor forever.  
Have regard for the covenant, for the dark places of the earth are full of the habitations of cruelty.  
O let not the oppressed return ashamed; let the poor and needy praise your name.  
Arise, O God, plead your own cause; remember how the foolish man reproaches you daily.  
Do not forget the voice of your enemies; the tumult of those who rise up against you increases continually.