Samuel also said to Saul, "The LORD sent me to anoint you as king over His people, over Israel. Now, therefore, listen to the voice of the words of the LORD."
Thus says the LORD of hosts, "I remember what Amalek did to Israel, how he ambushed him on the way when he came up from Egypt."
"Now go and strike Amalek, and completely destroy all that they have; do not spare them. Kill both man and woman, infant and nursing child, ox and sheep, camel and donkey."
And Saul gathered the people together and numbered them in Telaim: two hundred thousand foot soldiers and ten thousand men of Judah.
Saul came to a city of Amalek and lay in wait in the valley.
Saul said to the Kenites, "Go, depart, get down from among the Amalekites, lest I destroy you with them; for you showed kindness to all the children of Israel when they came up out of Egypt." So the Kenites departed from among the Amalekites.
Saul struck the Amalekites from Havilah all the way to Shur, which is opposite Egypt.
He took Agag, the king of the Amalekites, alive, but completely destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword.
However, Saul and the people spared Agag and the best of the sheep, the oxen, the fatlings, the lambs, and all that was good; they would not utterly destroy them. But everything that was vile and refuse, they destroyed completely.
Then the word of the LORD came to Samuel, saying,
"I regret that I have set up Saul as king, for he has turned back from following Me and has not performed My commandments." This grieved Samuel, and he cried out to the LORD all night.
When Samuel rose early to meet Saul in the morning, it was told Samuel, "Saul came to Carmel, and behold, he set up a monument for himself, and has gone on and passed down to Gilgal."
Samuel came to Saul, and Saul said to him, "Blessed are you of the LORD! I have performed the commandment of the LORD."
Samuel replied, "What then is this bleating of the sheep in my ears, and the lowing of the oxen that I hear?"
Saul said, "They have brought them from the Amalekites, for the people spared the best of the sheep and oxen to sacrifice to the LORD your God, and the rest we have utterly destroyed."
Then Samuel said to Saul, "Stay, and I will tell you what the LORD has said to me this night." And he said, "Speak on."
Samuel said, "When you were little in your own sight, were you not made the head of the tribes of Israel? And the LORD anointed you king over Israel?"
"The LORD sent you on a mission and said, 'Go and completely destroy the sinners, the Amalekites, and fight against them until they are consumed.'"
"Why then did you not obey the voice of the LORD, but instead rushed upon the spoil and did evil in the sight of the LORD?"
Saul said to Samuel, "Yes, I have obeyed the voice of the LORD and gone the way the LORD sent me. I brought Agag, the king of Amalek, and have utterly destroyed the Amalekites."
"But the people took of the spoil, sheep and oxen, the best of the things which should have been utterly destroyed, to sacrifice to the LORD your God in Gilgal."
Samuel said, "Has the LORD as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices as in obeying the voice of the LORD? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to heed than the fat of rams."
"For rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft, and stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry. Because you have rejected the word of the LORD, He has also rejected you from being king."
Saul said to Samuel, "I have sinned; for I have transgressed the commandment of the LORD and your words, because I feared the people and obeyed their voice."
"Now, therefore, I pray you, pardon my sin and return with me, that I may worship the LORD."
Samuel said to Saul, "I will not return with you; for you have rejected the word of the LORD, and the LORD has rejected you from being king over Israel."
As Samuel turned to go away, Saul seized the edge of his robe, and it tore.
Samuel said to him, "The LORD has torn the kingdom of Israel from you this day and has given it to a neighbor of yours who is better than you."
"Also, the Strength of Israel will not lie nor repent, for He is not a man that He should repent."
Then Saul said, "I have sinned; yet honor me now, I pray you, before the elders of my people and before Israel, and return with me, that I may worship the LORD your God."
So Samuel turned back after Saul, and Saul worshipped the LORD.
Then Samuel said, "Bring me Agag, the king of the Amalekites." And Agag came to him delicately. Agag said, "Surely the bitterness of death is past."
Samuel said, "As your sword has made women childless, so shall your mother be childless among women." And Samuel hewed Agag in pieces before the LORD in Gilgal.
Then Samuel went to Ramah, and Saul went up to his house in Gibeah of Saul.
Samuel came no more to see Saul until the day of his death; nevertheless, Samuel mourned for Saul, and the LORD regretted that He had made Saul king over Israel.
