Furthermore, we urge you, brothers, and encourage you by the Lord Jesus, that as you have received from us how you ought to walk and please God, you would excel more and more.
For you know what commandments we gave you through the Lord Jesus.
For this is the will of God, your sanctification, that you should abstain from sexual immorality.
That each of you should know how to control his own body in holiness and honor;
Not in the passion of lust, like the Gentiles who do not know God;
That no one transgress and wrong his brother in any matter, because the Lord is the avenger of all such, as we have also forewarned you and testified.
For God has not called us to impurity, but to holiness.
Therefore, whoever disregards this disregards not man, but God, who has also given us His holy Spirit.
But concerning brotherly love, you do not need me to write to you, for you yourselves have been taught by God to love one another.
And indeed, you do it toward all the brothers in all Macedonia; but we urge you, brothers, to increase more and more;
And to aspire to live quietly, and to mind your own affairs, and to work with your own hands, as we instructed you;
So that you may walk properly before outsiders and be dependent on no one.
But I do not want you to be uninformed, brothers, about those who are asleep, that you may not grieve as others do who have no hope.
For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so, through Jesus, God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep.
For this we declare to you by a word from the Lord, that we who are alive, who are left until the coming of the Lord, will not precede those who have fallen asleep.
For the Lord himself will descend from heaven with a cry of command, with the voice of an archangel, and with the sound of the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first.
Then we who are alive, who are left, will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so we will always be with the Lord.
Therefore, encourage one another with these words.
