The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD was as follows:
Thus speaks the LORD God of Israel: Write down all the words I have spoken to you in a book.
For behold, the days are coming, says the LORD, when I will restore the captivity of my people Israel and Judah; I will bring them back to the land I gave to their ancestors, and they will possess it.
These are the words the LORD spoke concerning Israel and Judah.
For thus says the LORD: We have heard a voice of trembling, of fear, and not of peace.
Ask now, and see if a man is in labor? Why do I see every man with his hands on his loins, like a woman in labor, and all faces are pale?
Alas! That day is great, so that none is like it; it is the time of Jacob's trouble, but he will be saved out of it.
For it shall come to pass on that day, says the LORD of hosts, that I will break the yoke from your neck and burst your bonds; strangers will no longer serve themselves of him.
But they will serve the LORD their God and David their king, whom I will raise up for them.
Therefore, do not fear, O my servant Jacob, says the LORD; do not be dismayed, O Israel: for behold, I will save you from afar, and your descendants from the land of their captivity; Jacob will return and be at rest, quiet, and unafraid.
For I am with you, says the LORD, to save you: though I make a full end of all nations where I have scattered you, I will not make a full end of you; I will correct you in measure and will not leave you unpunished.
For thus says the LORD: Your bruise is incurable, and your wound is grievous.
There is no one to plead your cause, so you may be bound up; you have no healing medicines.
All your lovers have forgotten you; they seek you not; for I have wounded you with the wound of an enemy, with the chastisement of a cruel one, because of the multitude of your iniquities; your sins have increased.
Why do you cry out for your affliction? Your sorrow is incurable because of the multitude of your iniquities; I have done these things to you.
Therefore, all who devour you shall be devoured; all your adversaries, every one of them, shall go into captivity; those who spoil you shall be a spoil, and all who prey upon you I will give for a prey.
For I will restore health to you and heal your wounds, says the LORD; because they called you an Outcast, saying, This is Zion, whom no man seeks after.
Thus says the LORD: Behold, I will bring back the captivity of Jacob's tents and have mercy on his dwelling places; the city shall be rebuilt on its own mound, and the palace shall remain as it was.
Out of them shall come thanksgiving and the voice of those who make merry; I will multiply them, and they shall not be few; I will also glorify them, and they shall not be small.
Their children shall be as in former times, and their congregation shall be established before me; I will punish all who oppress them.
Their nobles shall be from among themselves, and their governor shall come from their midst; I will cause him to draw near, and he shall approach me: for who is this that has engaged his heart to approach me? says the LORD.
And you shall be my people, and I will be your God.
Behold, the whirlwind of the LORD goes forth with fury, a continuing whirlwind; it shall fall with pain upon the head of the wicked.
The fierce anger of the LORD shall not return until he has done it and until he has performed the intents of his heart; in the latter days, you shall consider it.
