At that time, Herod the tetrarch heard of the fame of Jesus,  
and said to his servants, "This is John the Baptist; he has risen from the dead, and therefore mighty works are shown forth in him."  
For Herod had seized John, bound him, and imprisoned him for the sake of Herodias, his brother Philip's wife.  
For John had told him, "It is not lawful for you to have her."  
And when Herod wanted to put him to death, he feared the crowd, because they regarded him as a prophet.  
But when Herod's birthday was celebrated, the daughter of Herodias danced before them and pleased Herod.  
Therefore, he promised with an oath to give her whatever she would ask.  
And she, having been instructed by her mother, said, "Give me here the head of John the Baptist on a platter."  
And the king was distressed; nevertheless, for the sake of his oath and those who sat with him at the table, he commanded it to be given to her.  
So he sent and had John beheaded in the prison.  
His head was brought on a platter and given to the girl, and she took it to her mother.  
Then his disciples came, took the body, buried it, and went and told Jesus.  
When Jesus heard of it, he departed by boat to a solitary place; and when the people heard of this, they followed him on foot from the towns.  
And Jesus went out and saw a great crowd; he had compassion on them and healed their sick.  
When evening came, his disciples approached him, saying, "This is a remote place, and the hour is already late; send the crowds away so they can go to the villages and buy food for themselves."  
But Jesus replied, "They do not need to go away; you give them something to eat."  
They said to him, "We have here only five loaves and two fish."  
He said, "Bring them here to me."  
And he directed the people to sit down on the grass. Taking the five loaves and the two fish, he looked up to heaven, blessed them, broke the loaves, and gave them to the disciples, and the disciples gave them to the crowd.  
They all ate and were satisfied, and the disciples picked up twelve basketfuls of broken pieces that were left over.  
The number of those who ate was about five thousand men, besides women and children.  
Immediately, Jesus made his disciples get into the boat and go on ahead of him to the other side, while he dismissed the crowd.  
After he had dismissed them, he went up on a mountainside by himself to pray. Later that night, he was there alone.  
But the boat was already a considerable distance from land, buffeted by the waves because the wind was against it.  
During the fourth watch of the night, Jesus went out to them, walking on the sea.  
When the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were terrified, saying, "It is a ghost!" and they cried out in fear.  
But Jesus immediately said to them, "Take courage! It is I; do not be afraid."  
Peter replied, "Lord, if it is you, tell me to come to you on the water."  
"Come," he said. Then Peter got down out of the boat, walked on the water, and came toward Jesus.  
But when he saw the wind, he was afraid and, beginning to sink, cried out, "Lord, save me!"  
Immediately, Jesus reached out his hand and caught him, saying, "You of little faith, why did you doubt?"  
And when they climbed into the boat, the wind died down.  
Then those who were in the boat worshiped him, saying, "Truly you are the Son of God."  
When they had crossed over, they landed at Gennesaret.  
When the men of that place recognized Jesus, they sent word to all the surrounding country and brought to him all who were ill.  
And they begged him to let the sick just touch the edge of his cloak, and all who touched it were healed.