In the thirty-sixth year of Asa's reign, Baasha, king of Israel, came up against Judah and built Ramah to prevent anyone from going out or coming in to Asa, king of Judah.  
Then Asa took silver and gold from the treasures of the house of the LORD and from the king's palace and sent it to Benhadad, king of Syria, who was residing in Damascus, saying,  
"There is a treaty between you and me, as there was between my father and your father. Behold, I have sent you silver and gold; go, break your treaty with Baasha, king of Israel, so that he may withdraw from me."  
Benhadad listened to king Asa and sent the commanders of his armies against the cities of Israel; they struck Ijon, Dan, Abelmaim, and all the storage cities of Naphtali.  
When Baasha heard this, he stopped building Ramah and ceased his work.  
Then King Asa gathered all of Judah, and they carried away the stones and timber of Ramah, which Baasha had been using to build, and with them, he built Geba and Mizpah.  
At that time, Hanani the seer came to Asa, king of Judah, and said to him, "Because you have relied on the king of Syria and not on the LORD your God, the army of the king of Syria has escaped from your hand.  
Were not the Ethiopians and the Lubims a vast army, with many chariots and horsemen? Yet, because you relied on the LORD, He delivered them into your hand.  
For the eyes of the LORD range throughout the earth to strengthen those whose hearts are fully committed to Him. You have done a foolish thing, and from now on, you will be at war."  
Then Asa was angry with the seer and put him in prison, for he was enraged with him because of this. At the same time, Asa oppressed some of the people.  
And behold, the acts of Asa, both the first and the last, are written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel.  
In the thirty-ninth year of his reign, Asa was afflicted with a disease in his feet, and his condition became very severe; yet, in his disease, he did not seek the LORD but turned to physicians.  
Asa rested with his ancestors and died in the forty-first year of his reign.  
They buried him in his own tombs that he had made for himself in the city of David, and laid him in a bed filled with sweet aromas and various spices prepared by the perfumers' art; and they made a very great fire in his honor.