The burden of Nineveh: the vision of Nahum the Elkoshite.  
God is jealous, and the LORD takes vengeance; the LORD takes vengeance and is furious; the LORD will exact retribution on his adversaries and reserves wrath for his enemies.  
The LORD is slow to anger and great in power; he will not acquit the wicked at all: the LORD has his way in the whirlwind and the storm, and the clouds are the dust of his feet.  
He rebukes the sea and makes it dry, drying up all the rivers; Bashan languishes, and Carmel, and the flower of Lebanon withers.  
The mountains quake at his presence, and the hills melt; the earth is consumed before him, yes, the world and all who dwell therein.  
Who can stand before his indignation? Who can endure the fierceness of his anger? His fury is poured out like fire, and the rocks are shattered by him.  
The LORD is good, a stronghold in the day of trouble; he knows those who trust in him.  
But with an overwhelming flood, he will make an end of its place, and darkness will pursue his enemies.  
What do you imagine against the LORD? He will make an end of it; affliction will not rise up a second time.  
For while they are entwined like thorns and drunken like drunkards, they will be consumed like dry stubble.  
There is one who has come out from you, who devises evil against the LORD, a wicked counselor.  
Thus says the LORD: Though they are quiet and numerous, they will be cut down when he passes through. Though I have afflicted you, I will afflict you no more.  
For now, I will break his yoke from off you and will sever your bonds.  
And the LORD has given a command concerning you: no more shall your name be sown; out of the house of your gods, I will cut off the carved image and the molten image; I will make your grave, for you are vile.  
Behold, upon the mountains, the feet of him who brings good tidings, who proclaims peace! O Judah, keep your solemn feasts, fulfill your vows; for the wicked shall no longer pass through you; he is utterly cut off.