Now Jericho was tightly shut up because of the children of Israel: no one went out, and no one came in.  
And the LORD said to Joshua, "See, I have delivered Jericho, along with its king and the mighty men of valor, into your hands."  
And you shall march around the city, all you men of war, and go around the city once. This you shall do for six days.  
And seven priests shall carry seven trumpets of rams' horns before the ark; on the seventh day, you shall march around the city seven times, and the priests shall blow the trumpets.  
And it shall be that when they make a long blast with the ram's horn, and when you hear the sound of the trumpet, all the people shall shout with a great shout; then the wall of the city will fall down flat, and the people shall ascend up every man straight before him.  
And Joshua the son of Nun called the priests and said to them, "Take up the ark of the covenant, and let seven priests carry seven trumpets of rams' horns before the ark of the LORD."  
And he said to the people, "Advance, and march around the city, and let those who are armed go before the ark of the LORD."  
And it came to pass, when Joshua had spoken to the people, that the seven priests bearing the seven trumpets of rams' horns went on before the LORD and blew the trumpets; and the ark of the covenant of the LORD followed them.  
And the armed men went before the priests who blew the trumpets, and the rear guard came after the ark, the priests going on and blowing the trumpets.  
And Joshua had commanded the people, saying, "You shall not shout, nor make any noise with your voice, nor shall any word come out of your mouth, until the day I tell you to shout; then you shall shout."  
So the ark of the LORD marched around the city, going about it once; then they returned to the camp and lodged there.  
And Joshua rose early in the morning, and the priests took up the ark of the LORD.  
And seven priests bearing seven trumpets of rams' horns before the ark of the LORD went on continually, blowing the trumpets; and the armed men went before them, but the rear guard came after the ark of the LORD, the priests going on and blowing the trumpets.  
And on the second day, they marched around the city once and returned to the camp; so they did for six days.  
And it came to pass on the seventh day, that they rose early at dawn and marched around the city in the same manner seven times; only on that day they marched around the city seven times.  
And it came to pass at the seventh time, when the priests blew the trumpets, Joshua said to the people, "Shout; for the LORD has given you the city."  
And the city shall be accursed, along with all that are in it, to the LORD; only Rahab the harlot shall live, she and all who are with her in the house, because she hid the messengers that we sent.  
And you, be sure to keep yourselves from the accursed things, lest you make yourselves accursed when you take of the accursed things and make the camp of Israel a curse and trouble it.  
But all the silver, gold, and vessels of bronze and iron are consecrated to the LORD; they shall go into the treasury of the LORD.  
So the people shouted when the priests blew the trumpets; and it came to pass, when the people heard the sound of the trumpet and shouted with a great shout, that the wall fell down flat, so that the people went up into the city, every man straight before him, and they took the city.  
And they utterly destroyed all that was in the city, both man and woman, young and old, and ox, sheep, and donkey, with the edge of the sword.  
But Joshua said to the two men who had spied out the country, "Go into the harlot's house and bring out from there the woman and all that she has, as you swore to her."  
And the young men who were spies went in and brought out Rahab, her father, her mother, her brothers, and all that she had; and they brought out all her relatives and left them outside the camp of Israel.  
And they burned the city with fire and all that was in it; only the silver, gold, and vessels of bronze and iron they put into the treasury of the house of the LORD.  
And Joshua spared Rahab the harlot, her father's household, and all that she had; and she dwells in Israel to this day because she hid the messengers whom Joshua sent to spy out Jericho.  
And Joshua charged them at that time, saying, "Cursed be the man before the LORD who rises up and rebuilds this city, Jericho; he shall lay its foundation with his firstborn, and with his youngest son he shall set up its gates."  
So the LORD was with Joshua, and his fame spread throughout all the country.