In the seventh year of Jehu, Jehoash began to reign, and he reigned for forty years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Zibiah from Beersheba.
Jehoash did what was right in the sight of the LORD throughout his days while Jehoiada the priest instructed him.
However, the high places were not removed; the people continued to sacrifice and burn incense at those high places.
Jehoash instructed the priests, saying, "All the money from the dedicated offerings brought into the house of the LORD, including the money from everyone who passes the account, the money that each person is assessed, and all the money that comes into anyone's heart to bring into the house of the LORD,
Let the priests take it from their acquaintances and use it to repair the breaches of the house wherever they are found."
Yet, in the twenty-third year of King Jehoash, the priests had not repaired the breaches of the house.
Then King Jehoash called for Jehoiada the priest and the other priests and asked them, "Why are you not repairing the breaches of the house? Therefore, do not receive any more money from your acquaintances, but deliver it for the repairs of the house."
The priests agreed not to receive any more money from the people, nor to repair the breaches of the house.
But Jehoiada the priest took a chest, bored a hole in its lid, and placed it beside the altar on the right side as one enters the house of the LORD. The priests who kept the door put all the money brought into the house of the LORD into it.
When they saw that there was a large amount of money in the chest, the king's scribe and the high priest came up, put the money into bags, and counted what was found in the house of the LORD.
They gave the counted money into the hands of those who did the work and had oversight of the house of the LORD, and they used it to pay the carpenters and builders working on the house of the LORD,
As well as the masons and stonecutters, and to purchase timber and hewn stone to repair the breaches of the house of the LORD, and for all expenses related to the repairs.
However, no bowls of silver, snuffers, basins, trumpets, or any vessels of gold or silver were made for the house of the LORD from the money brought into it.
Instead, they gave that money to the workmen to repair the house of the LORD.
Moreover, they did not account for the men into whose hands they delivered the money to be used for the workmen, for they dealt faithfully.
The trespass money and sin money were not brought into the house of the LORD; it belonged to the priests.
Then Hazael, king of Syria, went up and fought against Gath and captured it; he set his sights on going up to Jerusalem.
King Jehoash of Judah took all the sacred things that Jehoshaphat, Jehoram, and Ahaziah, his ancestors, kings of Judah, had dedicated, along with his own sacred items and all the gold found in the treasures of the house of the LORD and in the king's palace, and sent it to Hazael, king of Syria, who then withdrew from Jerusalem.
The rest of the acts of Jehoash and all that he did are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
His servants rose up and conspired against him, killing Jehoash in the house of Millo, which goes down to Silla.
For Jozachar, the son of Shimeath, and Jehozabad, the son of Shomer, his servants, struck him down, and he died; they buried him with his ancestors in the city of David, and his son Amaziah reigned in his place.
