And at that time, Michael shall arise, the great prince who stands for the children of your people; there will be a time of trouble, such as has never been since there was a nation, even to that time. At that time, your people shall be delivered, everyone whose name is found written in the book.
And many of those who sleep in the dust of the earth shall awaken, some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt.
Those who are wise shall shine like the brightness of the heavens, and those who lead many to righteousness shall shine like the stars forever and ever.
But you, O Daniel, close up the words and seal the book until the time of the end; many shall run to and fro, and knowledge shall be increased.
Then I, Daniel, looked, and behold, there stood two others, one on this side of the riverbank and the other on that side of the riverbank.
And one said to the man clothed in linen, who was above the waters of the river, "How long shall it be until the end of these wonders?"
And I heard the man clothed in linen, who was above the waters of the river, when he raised his right hand and his left hand to heaven and swore by Him who lives forever that it shall be for a time, times, and half a time; and when he has finished scattering the power of the holy people, all these things shall be accomplished.
And I heard, but I did not understand; then I said, "O my Lord, what shall be the outcome of these things?"
And he said, "Go your way, Daniel, for the words are closed up and sealed until the time of the end."
Many shall be purified, made white, and refined; but the wicked shall act wickedly, and none of the wicked shall understand, but the wise shall understand.
And from the time that the daily sacrifice is taken away, and the abomination that causes desolation is set up, there shall be one thousand two hundred and ninety days.
Blessed is he who waits and comes to the one thousand three hundred and thirty-five days.
But you, go your way until the end; for you shall rest and stand in your allotted place at the end of the days.
