Boaz went up to the gate and sat down there. Behold, the kinsman Boaz spoke of came by. He said to him, "Ho, such a one! Turn aside and sit down here." The kinsman turned aside and sat down.
Boaz took ten men from the elders of the city and said, "Sit down here." They sat down.
He said to the kinsman, "Naomi, who has returned from the country of Moab, is selling a parcel of land that belonged to our brother Elimelech.
I thought to inform you, saying, 'Buy it in the presence of the inhabitants and the elders of my people. If you will redeem it, redeem it; but if you will not redeem it, then tell me so I may know, for there is no one to redeem it besides you, and I am next in line.'" The kinsman replied, "I will redeem it."
Then Boaz said, "On the day you buy the field from Naomi, you must also acquire Ruth the Moabitess, the widow of the deceased, to raise up the name of the dead upon his inheritance."
The kinsman said, "I cannot redeem it for myself, lest I jeopardize my own inheritance. Redeem my right for yourself, for I cannot redeem it."
Now this was the custom in former times in Israel regarding redemption and exchange, to confirm all matters: a man would remove his sandal and give it to his neighbor; this was a testimony in Israel.
Therefore, the kinsman said to Boaz, "Buy it for yourself." So he removed his sandal.
Boaz said to the elders and all the people, "You are witnesses this day that I have bought all that belonged to Elimelech, as well as all that belonged to Chilion and Mahlon, from the hand of Naomi.
Furthermore, I have acquired Ruth the Moabitess, the widow of Mahlon, to be my wife, in order to raise up the name of the dead upon his inheritance, so that the name of the dead will not be cut off from among his brethren and from the gate of his place. You are witnesses this day."
All the people at the gate and the elders said, "We are witnesses. May the LORD make the woman who has come into your house like Rachel and Leah, who together built the house of Israel. May you act worthily in Ephratah and be renowned in Bethlehem.
May your house be like the house of Pharez, whom Tamar bore to Judah, from the seed that the LORD will give you by this young woman."
So Boaz took Ruth, and she became his wife. When he went in to her, the LORD enabled her to conceive, and she bore a son.
The women said to Naomi, "Blessed be the LORD, who has not left you this day without a kinsman, and may his name be renowned in Israel.
He will be a restorer of your life and a nourisher of your old age, for your daughter-in-law, who loves you and is better to you than seven sons, has given birth to him."
Naomi took the child, laid him in her bosom, and became his nurse.
The women, her neighbors, gave him a name, saying, "A son has been born to Naomi," and they named him Obed. He is the father of Jesse, the father of David.
Now these are the generations of Pharez: Pharez begat Hezron,
Hezron begat Ram, and Ram begat Amminadab,
Amminadab begat Nahshon, and Nahshon begat Salmon,
Salmon begat Boaz, and Boaz begat Obed,
Obed begat Jesse, and Jesse begat David.
