Yet now listen, O Jacob, my servant; and Israel, whom I have chosen:  
Thus says the LORD who created you and formed you from the womb; He will help you. Do not fear, O Jacob, my servant; and you, Jesurun, whom I have chosen.  
For I will pour water on the thirsty and floods on the dry ground; I will pour my spirit upon your descendants and my blessing upon your offspring.  
And they shall spring up like grass, like willows by the watercourses.  
One will say, "I am the LORD's"; another will call himself by the name of Jacob; and another will write with his hand to the LORD, and name himself by the name of Israel.  
Thus says the LORD, the King of Israel, and his Redeemer, the LORD of hosts: I am the first, and I am the last; and besides me, there is no God.  
And who, like me, can call and declare it, and set it in order for me, since I appointed the ancient people? Let them show the things that are coming and will come.  
Do not fear, nor be afraid; have I not told you from that time and declared it? You are my witnesses. Is there a God besides me? Yes, there is no God; I know not any.  
Those who make a graven image are all vanity; their delightful things will not profit; they are their own witnesses; they do not see or know, so they may be ashamed.  
Who has formed a god or cast a graven image that is profitable for nothing?  
Behold, all his companions shall be ashamed; and the craftsmen, they are mere men: let them all be gathered together, let them stand up; yet they shall fear and be ashamed together.  
The smith with the tongs works in the coals, fashions it with hammers, and works it with the strength of his arms; yes, he is hungry, and his strength fails; he drinks no water and is faint.  
The carpenter stretches out his rule; he marks it out with a line; he fits it with planes, and marks it out with a compass, making it after the figure of a man, according to the beauty of a man, so that it may remain in the house.  
He hews down cedars and takes the cypress and the oak, which he strengthens for himself among the trees of the forest; he plants an ash, and the rain nourishes it.  
Then it will be for a man to burn; he will take some of it and warm himself; yes, he kindles it and bakes bread; he makes a god and worships it; he makes it a graven image and falls down to it.  
He burns part of it in the fire; with part of it, he eats flesh; he roasts meat and is satisfied; yes, he warms himself and says, "Aha, I am warm, I have seen the fire."  
And the residue he makes into a god, even his graven image; he falls down to it, worships it, and prays to it, saying, "Deliver me, for you are my god."  
They do not know or understand; for he has shut their eyes so that they cannot see, and their hearts so that they cannot understand.  
And no one considers in his heart, nor is there knowledge or understanding to say, "I have burned part of it in the fire; yes, I have also baked bread on its coals; I have roasted meat and eaten it; and shall I make the residue an abomination? Shall I fall down to the stock of a tree?"  
He feeds on ashes; a deceived heart has turned him aside, so he cannot deliver his soul, nor say, "Is there not a lie in my right hand?"  
Remember these things, O Jacob and Israel; for you are my servant: I have formed you; you are my servant: O Israel, you shall not be forgotten by me.  
I have blotted out, like a thick cloud, your transgressions, and like a cloud, your sins; return to me, for I have redeemed you.  
Sing, O heavens, for the LORD has done it; shout, you lower parts of the earth; break forth into singing, you mountains, O forest, and every tree therein; for the LORD has redeemed Jacob and glorified himself in Israel.  
Thus says the LORD, your Redeemer, and he who formed you from the womb: I am the LORD who makes all things; who stretches out the heavens alone; who spreads abroad the earth by myself;  
Who frustrates the tokens of the liars and makes diviners mad; who turns wise men backward and makes their knowledge foolish;  
Who confirms the word of his servant and performs the counsel of his messengers; who says to Jerusalem, "You shall be inhabited"; and to the cities of Judah, "You shall be built, and I will raise up the decayed places thereof";  
Who says to the deep, "Be dry, and I will dry up your rivers";  
Who says of Cyrus, "He is my shepherd, and shall perform all my pleasure"; even saying to Jerusalem, "You shall be built"; and to the temple, "Your foundation shall be laid."