The word of the LORD came to me once more, saying,
"Son of man, prophesy and declare, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: Wail, for the day is near!'"
For the day is approaching, indeed, the day of the LORD is near, a day filled with clouds; it will be a time for the nations.
The sword will strike Egypt, and great anguish will be felt in Ethiopia, when the slain fall in Egypt, and her multitude is taken away, her foundations laid bare.
Ethiopia, Libya, Lydia, all the mixed peoples, Chub, and the men of the land in alliance will fall by the sword alongside them.
Thus says the LORD: Those who support Egypt will also fall; the pride of her power will be brought low: from the tower of Syene, they will fall by the sword, declares the Lord GOD.
They will be desolate among desolate nations, and her cities will lie in ruins among the cities that are wasted.
They will know that I am the LORD when I set a fire in Egypt, and all her allies are destroyed.
On that day, messengers will sail from me in ships to instill fear in the careless Ethiopians, and great anguish will come upon them, as it did in the day of Egypt: for, behold, it is coming.
Thus says the Lord GOD: I will also cause the multitude of Egypt to cease by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon.
He and his fierce people will come to devastate the land: they will draw their swords against Egypt and fill the land with the slain.
I will dry up the rivers and hand the land over to the wicked: I will make the land desolate, along with all that is in it, by the hand of strangers: I, the LORD, have spoken.
Thus says the Lord GOD: I will also destroy the idols and cause their images to cease from Noph; there will no longer be a prince in the land of Egypt: I will instill fear in the land of Egypt.
I will make Pathros desolate, set fire to Zoan, and execute judgments in No.
I will pour out my fury upon Sin, the stronghold of Egypt; I will cut off the multitude of No.
I will set fire to Egypt: Sin will experience great anguish, No will be torn apart, and Noph will suffer daily distress.
The young men of Aven and Pibeseth will fall by the sword, and these cities will be taken captive.
At Tehaphnehes, the day will be darkened when I break the yokes of Egypt: the splendor of her strength will cease; a cloud will cover her, and her daughters will go into captivity.
Thus will I execute judgments in Egypt, and they will know that I am the LORD.
And it came to pass in the eleventh year, in the first month, on the seventh day of the month, that the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
"Son of man, I have broken the arm of Pharaoh, king of Egypt; behold, it will not be bound up to be healed, nor will it be wrapped to make it strong enough to wield the sword."
Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I am against Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and I will break his arms, both the strong and the broken; I will cause the sword to fall from his hand.
I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations and disperse them throughout the countries.
I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon and place my sword in his hand; but I will break Pharaoh's arms, and he will groan before him like a mortally wounded man.
But I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, and the arms of Pharaoh will fall; they will know that I am the LORD when I place my sword in the hand of the king of Babylon, and he stretches it out over the land of Egypt.
I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations and disperse them among the countries; and they will know that I am the LORD.
