The word that came to Jeremiah regarding all the Jews who dwell in the land of Egypt, specifically those at Migdol, Tahpanhes, Noph, and in the region of Pathros, was as follows:
Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: You have witnessed all the calamity that I have brought upon Jerusalem and all the cities of Judah; behold, this day they are desolate, and no one dwells there.
This is due to their wickedness, which they committed to provoke me to anger by burning incense and serving other gods, whom they did not know, neither you, nor your fathers.
Nevertheless, I sent to you all my servants the prophets, rising early and sending them, saying, "Oh, do not commit this detestable act that I hate."
But they did not listen, nor did they incline their ear to turn from their wickedness and stop burning incense to other gods.
Therefore, my fury and my anger were poured out and kindled in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem; they are now wasted and desolate, as they are today.
Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Why do you commit this great evil against your souls, cutting off from you man and woman, child and infant, from Judah, leaving none to remain?
By provoking me to wrath with the works of your hands, burning incense to other gods in the land of Egypt, where you have gone to dwell, you are cutting yourselves off and becoming a curse and a reproach among all the nations of the earth.
Have you forgotten the wickedness of your fathers, the wickedness of the kings of Judah, the wickedness of their wives, and your own wickedness, and the wickedness of your wives, which they committed in the land of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem?
They have not humbled themselves even to this day, nor have they feared, nor walked in my law, nor in my statutes, which I set before you and your fathers.
Therefore, thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I will set my face against you for evil, and to cut off all Judah.
I will take the remnant of Judah who have set their faces to go into the land of Egypt to sojourn there; they shall all be consumed and fall in the land of Egypt; they shall be consumed by the sword and by famine: they shall die, from the least to the greatest, by sword and famine; and they shall be an execration, an astonishment, a curse, and a reproach.
For I will punish those who dwell in the land of Egypt, as I have punished Jerusalem, by sword, famine, and pestilence.
So that none of the remnant of Judah who have gone into the land of Egypt to sojourn there shall escape or remain, that they should return to the land of Judah, to which they desire to return to dwell there: for none shall return except those who escape.
Then all the men who knew that their wives had burned incense to other gods, and all the women who stood by, a great multitude, even all the people who dwelt in the land of Egypt, in Pathros, answered Jeremiah, saying,
As for the word that you have spoken to us in the name of the LORD, we will not listen to you.
But we will certainly do whatever thing goes forth from our own mouths, to burn incense to the queen of heaven, and to pour out drink offerings to her, as we have done, we, our fathers, our kings, and our princes, in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem: for then we had plenty of food, were well off, and saw no evil.
But since we stopped burning incense to the queen of heaven and pouring out drink offerings to her, we have lacked everything and have been consumed by sword and famine.
And when we burned incense to the queen of heaven and poured out drink offerings to her, did we make cakes to worship her and pour out drink offerings to her without our men?
Then Jeremiah said to all the people, to the men, and to the women, and to all the people who had given him that answer, saying,
The incense that you burned in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem, you, your fathers, your kings, your princes, and the people of the land, did not the LORD remember them, and did it not come into his mind?
So that the LORD could no longer bear it because of the evil of your doings and the abominations which you have committed; therefore, your land is a desolation, an astonishment, and a curse, without an inhabitant, as it is today.
Because you have burned incense and sinned against the LORD, and have not obeyed the voice of the LORD, nor walked in his law, nor in his statutes, nor in his testimonies; therefore, this evil has happened to you, as it is today.
Moreover, Jeremiah said to all the people and to all the women, "Hear the word of the LORD, all Judah who are in the land of Egypt:
Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: You and your wives have both spoken with your mouths and fulfilled with your hands, saying, 'We will surely perform our vows that we have vowed, to burn incense to the queen of heaven and to pour out drink offerings to her.' You will surely accomplish your vows and surely perform your vows.
Therefore, hear the word of the LORD, all Judah who dwell in the land of Egypt: Behold, I have sworn by my great name, says the LORD, that my name shall no longer be named in the mouth of any man of Judah in all the land of Egypt, saying, 'The Lord GOD lives.'
Behold, I will watch over them for evil, and not for good: and all the men of Judah who are in the land of Egypt shall be consumed by sword and famine, until there is an end of them.
Yet a small number that escape the sword shall return from the land of Egypt to the land of Judah, and all the remnant of Judah who have gone into the land of Egypt to sojourn there shall know whose words will stand, mine or theirs.
And this shall be a sign to you, says the LORD, that I will punish you in this place, so that you may know that my words shall surely stand against you for evil:
Thus says the LORD: Behold, I will give Pharaohhophra, king of Egypt, into the hand of his enemies, and into the hand of those who seek his life; as I gave Zedekiah, king of Judah, into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, his enemy, who sought his life.
