And after the uproar had ceased, Paul called the disciples to him, embraced them, and departed to go into Macedonia.  
When he had traveled through those regions and given them much encouragement, he arrived in Greece.  
He stayed there for three months, and when the Jews plotted against him as he was about to sail to Syria, he decided to return through Macedonia.  
Accompanying him to Asia were Sopater from Berea, Aristarchus and Secundus from Thessalonica, Gaius from Derbe, Timothy, and Tychicus and Trophimus from Asia.  
These men went ahead and waited for us at Troas.  
We set sail from Philippi after the Days of Unleavened Bread and reached them at Troas in five days, where we stayed for seven days.  
On the first day of the week, when the disciples gathered to break bread, Paul spoke to them, preparing to leave the next day, and continued his message until midnight.  
There were many lamps in the upper room where they were gathered.  
A young man named Eutychus was sitting in a window and fell into a deep sleep; as Paul spoke on and on, he fell down from the third story and was picked up dead.  
Paul went down, threw himself on the young man, and embraced him, saying, "Don't be alarmed; his life is in him."  
After going back upstairs, he broke bread, ate, and talked with them for a long time, until daylight, and then he departed.  
They brought the young man in alive, and they were greatly comforted.  
We went ahead to the ship and sailed to Assos, intending to take Paul on board, for he had arranged it that way, intending to go there on foot.  
When he met us at Assos, we took him on board and went to Mitylene.  
From there, we sailed and arrived the next day opposite Chios; the following day we reached Samos and stayed at Trogyllium; the next day we came to Miletus.  
Paul had decided to sail past Ephesus to avoid spending time in Asia, for he was eager to be in Jerusalem by the day of Pentecost, if possible.  
From Miletus, he sent to Ephesus and called for the elders of the church.  
When they arrived, he said to them, "You know how I lived among you the whole time I was with you, from the first day I came to Asia,  
serving the Lord with all humility, with tears, and trials that happened to me through the plots of the Jews.  
I did not hesitate to proclaim to you anything that was profitable, and taught you publicly and from house to house,  
testifying to both Jews and Greeks about repentance toward God and faith in our Lord Jesus Christ.  
And now, behold, I am going to Jerusalem, constrained by the Spirit, not knowing what will happen to me there,  
except that the Holy Spirit testifies to me in every city that imprisonment and afflictions await me.  
But I do not account my life of any value nor as precious to myself, if only I may finish my course and the ministry that I received from the Lord Jesus, to testify to the gospel of the grace of God.  
And now, behold, I know that none of you among whom I have gone about proclaiming the kingdom will see my face again.  
Therefore, I testify to you this day that I am innocent of the blood of all,  
for I did not shrink from declaring to you the whole counsel of God.  
Pay careful attention to yourselves and to all the flock, in which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers, to care for the church of God, which he obtained with his own blood.  
I know that after my departure, fierce wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock;  
and from among your own selves will arise men speaking twisted things, to draw away the disciples after them.  
Therefore, be alert, remembering that for three years I did not cease night or day to admonish everyone with tears.  
And now I commend you to God and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up and to give you the inheritance among all those who are sanctified.  
I coveted no one's silver or gold or apparel.  
You yourselves know that these hands ministered to my necessities and to those who were with me.  
In all things I have shown you that by working hard in this way we must help the weak and remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he himself said, 'It is more blessed to give than to receive.'"  
And when he had said these things, he knelt down and prayed with them all.  
They all wept freely and fell on Paul's neck and kissed him,  
sorrowing most of all because of the word he had spoken, that they would see his face no more. And they accompanied him to the ship.