Do not boast about tomorrow; for you do not know what a day may bring.  
Let someone else praise you, and not your own mouth; a stranger, and not your own lips.  
A stone is heavy, and sand is weighty; but a fool's anger is heavier than both.  
Wrath is cruel, and anger is outrageous; but who can stand before envy?  
Open rebuke is better than hidden love.  
Faithful are the wounds of a friend; but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful.  
The full soul loathes honeycomb; but to the hungry soul, every bitter thing is sweet.  
Like a bird that wanders from her nest, so is a man who strays from his place.  
Ointment and perfume bring joy to the heart; so does the sweetness of a friend’s hearty counsel.  
Do not forsake your own friend or your father's friend; nor go to your brother's house in the day of your calamity: for better is a neighbor who is near than a brother far away.  
My son, be wise, and make my heart glad, so that I may respond to him who reproaches me.  
A prudent man foresees danger and hides himself; but the simple pass on and suffer the consequences.  
Take his garment who is surety for a stranger, and take a pledge from him for a strange woman.  
He who blesses his friend with a loud voice, rising early in the morning, will be counted as cursing.  
A continual dripping on a very rainy day and a contentious woman are alike.  
Whoever hides her hides the wind, and the ointment of his right hand reveals itself.  
Iron sharpens iron; so a man sharpens the countenance of his friend.  
Whoever tends the fig tree will eat its fruit; so he who waits on his master will be honored.  
As in water, face answers to face, so the heart of man reflects man.  
Hell and destruction are never full; so the eyes of man are never satisfied.  
As the refining pot is for silver, and the furnace for gold; so is a man to his praise.  
Though you grind a fool in a mortar with wheat using a pestle, his foolishness will not depart from him.  
Be diligent to know the state of your flocks, and pay close attention to your herds.  
For riches are not forever; and does the crown endure to every generation?  
The hay appears, and the tender grass shows itself, and the herbs of the mountains are gathered.  
The lambs are for your clothing, and the goats are the price of the field.  
And you will have enough goats' milk for your food, for the food of your household, and for the sustenance of your maidens.