Naomi, her mother-in-law, said to her, "My daughter, should I not seek rest for you, so that it may be well with you?  
And is not Boaz our relative, with whose maidens you were? Look, he is winnowing barley tonight at the threshing floor.  
Therefore, wash yourself, anoint yourself, and put on your best clothes, and go down to the floor; but do not make yourself known to the man until he has finished eating and drinking.  
And it shall be that when he lies down, you shall notice the place where he lies; then you shall go in, uncover his feet, and lie down; and he will tell you what you should do.  
She replied, "All that you say to me, I will do."  
So she went down to the floor and did everything her mother-in-law instructed her.  
When Boaz had eaten and drunk, and his heart was merry, he went to lie down at the end of the heap of grain; and she came softly, uncovered his feet, and lay down.  
At midnight, the man was startled and turned over, and behold, a woman lay at his feet.  
He asked, "Who are you?" And she answered, "I am Ruth, your servant; spread your cloak over your servant, for you are a redeemer."  
He said, "Blessed are you of the LORD, my daughter; for you have shown more kindness in the latter end than at the beginning, in that you did not follow young men, whether poor or rich.  
And now, my daughter, do not fear; I will do for you all that you request, for all the people of my town know that you are a virtuous woman.  
It is true that I am your near relative; however, there is a relative closer than I.  
Stay this night, and in the morning, if he will perform the duty of a close relative for you, good; let him do his duty as a close relative. But if he does not want to do the duty of a close relative for you, then I will do the duty of a close relative for you, as the LORD lives. Lie down until morning."  
She lay at his feet until morning, and she rose before anyone could recognize another. He said, "Let it not be known that a woman came to the threshing floor."  
He also said, "Bring the shawl that you have on you and hold it." When she held it out, he measured out six measures of barley and laid it on her; then she went into the city.  
When she came to her mother-in-law, she said, "How did it go, my daughter?" And she told her all that the man had done for her.  
She said, "These six measures of barley he gave me, saying, 'Do not go back to your mother-in-law empty-handed.'"  
Then she said, "Sit still, my daughter, until you know how the matter will turn out; for the man will not rest until he has settled it today."