At this, my heart trembles and is moved from its place.  
Listen attentively to the sound of His voice, and the words that come from His mouth.  
He directs it across the entire heavens, and His lightning to the farthest corners of the earth.  
After it, a voice roars; He thunders with the voice of His majesty, and He will not hold back when His voice is heard.  
God thunders marvelously with His voice; He performs great things that we cannot understand.  
For He says to the snow, "Fall on the earth," and to the small rain and the heavy rain of His strength.  
He seals the hand of every person so that all may recognize His work.  
Then the animals retreat to their dens and remain in their shelters.  
From the south comes the whirlwind, and cold air from the north.  
By the breath of God, frost is formed, and the expanse of the waters is constrained.  
He also wearies the thick clouds with moisture; He scatters His bright clouds.  
They are turned around by His guidance, to accomplish whatever He commands upon the face of the earth.  
He causes it to happen, whether for correction, for His land, or for mercy.  
Listen to this, O Job: stand still and consider the marvelous works of God.  
Do you know when God sets them in place and causes the light of His cloud to shine?  
Do you know the balancing of the clouds, the marvelous works of Him who is perfect in knowledge?  
How are your garments warm when He calms the earth with the south wind?  
Have you spread out the sky with Him, which is strong and like a molten mirror?  
Teach us what we should say to Him; for we cannot arrange our words because of the darkness.  
Should it be told to Him that I speak? If a man speaks, surely he will be overwhelmed.  
And now men do not see the bright light that is in the clouds; but the wind passes and clears them away.  
Fair weather comes from the north; with God is awesome majesty.  
Concerning the Almighty, we cannot fully understand Him; He is excellent in power, in judgment, and in abundant justice; He will not oppress.  
Therefore, men fear Him; He does not regard those who are wise in heart.