Woe to her who is filthy and polluted, to the oppressive city!
She did not heed the voice; she did not accept correction; she did not trust in the LORD; she did not draw near to her God.
Her leaders within her are roaring lions; her judges are evening wolves; they do not gnaw the bones until the morning.
Her prophets are deceitful and treacherous: her priests have defiled the sanctuary, they have violated the law.
The just LORD is in the midst of her; He will not commit iniquity: every morning He brings His judgment to light, He does not fail; but the unjust know no shame.
I have cut off the nations: their towers are desolate; I made their streets waste, so that none pass by: their cities are destroyed, so that there is no man, no inhabitant.
I said, Surely you will fear me, you will receive instruction; so their dwelling should not be cut off, however I punished them: but they rose early and corrupted all their deeds.
Therefore wait upon me, says the LORD, until the day that I rise up to the prey: for my determination is to gather the nations, that I may assemble the kingdoms, to pour upon them my indignation, even all my fierce anger: for all the earth shall be consumed with the fire of my jealousy.
For then I will turn to the people a pure language, that they may all call upon the name of the LORD, to serve Him with one accord.
From beyond the rivers of Ethiopia, my supplicants, even the daughter of my dispersed, shall bring my offering.
In that day you shall not be ashamed of all your deeds, in which you have transgressed against me: for then I will remove from your midst those who rejoice in your pride, and you shall no longer be haughty because of my holy mountain.
I will also leave in your midst an afflicted and poor people, and they shall trust in the name of the LORD.
The remnant of Israel shall not commit iniquity, nor speak lies; neither shall a deceitful tongue be found in their mouths: for they shall feed and lie down, and none shall make them afraid.
Sing, O daughter of Zion; shout, O Israel; be glad and rejoice with all your heart, O daughter of Jerusalem.
The LORD has taken away your judgments, He has cast out your enemy: the king of Israel, even the LORD, is in your midst: you shall not see evil anymore.
In that day it shall be said to Jerusalem, Fear not: and to Zion, Let not your hands be weak.
The LORD your God in the midst of you is mighty; He will save, He will rejoice over you with joy; He will rest in His love, He will joy over you with singing.
I will gather those who are sorrowful for the solemn assembly, who are among you, to whom the reproach of it was a burden.
Behold, at that time I will remove all that afflicts you: and I will save her who is lame, and gather her who was driven out; and I will give them praise and fame in every land where they have been put to shame.
At that time I will bring you back, even at the time that I gather you: for I will make you a name and a praise among all the peoples of the earth, when I restore your fortunes before your eyes, says the LORD.
