Once again, the word of the LORD came to me, saying,  
"Son of man, make Jerusalem aware of her abominations,  
And say, 'Thus says the Lord GOD to Jerusalem: Your birth and your nativity are from the land of Canaan; your father was an Amorite, and your mother was a Hittite.'  
Regarding your nativity, on the day you were born, your umbilical cord was not cut, nor were you washed in water to cleanse you; you were not salted at all, nor swaddled.  
No one took pity on you to do any of these things for you, to show you compassion; instead, you were thrown out into the open field, loathed on the day you were born.  
When I passed by you and saw you polluted in your own blood, I said to you, 'Live!' Yes, I said to you, 'Live!'  
I made you grow like a plant in the field; you increased and became great, and you reached excellent beauty: your breasts were formed, and your hair grew, while you were naked and bare.  
When I passed by you again and looked upon you, behold, it was the time of love; I spread my skirt over you and covered your nakedness: yes, I swore to you and entered into a covenant with you, says the Lord GOD, and you became mine.  
Then I washed you with water; yes, I thoroughly washed away your blood from you, and I anointed you with oil.  
I clothed you with embroidered cloth, and shod you with badger skin; I wrapped you in fine linen and covered you with silk.  
I adorned you with jewelry, putting bracelets on your hands and a chain around your neck.  
I placed a jewel on your forehead, earrings in your ears, and a beautiful crown on your head.  
Thus you were adorned with gold and silver; your clothing was of fine linen, silk, and embroidered cloth; you ate fine flour, honey, and oil: you were exceedingly beautiful and prospered into a kingdom.  
Your fame spread among the nations for your beauty; it was perfect through my splendor, which I had bestowed upon you, says the Lord GOD.  
But you trusted in your own beauty and played the harlot because of your fame, pouring out your fornications on everyone who passed by; it was theirs.  
You took your garments and adorned your high places with various colors, and you played the harlot on them: such things shall not happen, nor shall it be so.  
You also took your beautiful jewels of my gold and silver, which I had given you, and made for yourself images of men, and committed whoredom with them.  
You took your embroidered garments and covered them; you set my oil and my incense before them.  
My food, which I gave you—fine flour, oil, and honey, with which I fed you—you set it before them as a sweet savor: and thus it was, says the Lord GOD.  
Moreover, you took your sons and your daughters, whom you bore to me, and sacrificed them to be devoured. Is this a small matter of your whoredoms,  
That you have slain my children and delivered them to pass through the fire for them?  
In all your abominations and whoredoms, you have not remembered the days of your youth, when you were naked and bare, and polluted in your blood.  
And it came to pass after all your wickedness, (woe, woe to you! says the LORD GOD;)  
That you built for yourself an eminent place and made a high place in every street.  
You built your high place at every head of the way and made your beauty to be abhorred; you opened your feet to everyone who passed by and multiplied your whoredoms.  
You also committed fornication with the Egyptians, your neighbors, great of flesh; and you increased your whoredoms to provoke me to anger.  
Behold, therefore, I have stretched out my hand over you, and diminished your ordinary food, and delivered you to the will of those who hate you, the daughters of the Philistines, who are ashamed of your lewdness.  
You have played the whore also with the Assyrians, because you were insatiable; yes, you played the harlot with them, and yet could not be satisfied.  
You have moreover multiplied your fornication in the land of Canaan to Chaldea; and yet you were not satisfied therewith.  
How weak is your heart, says the LORD GOD, seeing you do all these things, the work of an imperious whorish woman;  
In that you build your eminent place at the head of every way and make your high place in every street; and you have not been like a harlot, in that you scorn hire;  
But like a wife who commits adultery, taking strangers instead of her husband!  
They give gifts to all whores; but you give your gifts to all your lovers and hire them, that they may come to you on every side for your whoredom.  
And the opposite is true for you compared to other women in your whoredoms, where none follow you to commit whoredoms; and in that you give a reward, and no reward is given to you, therefore you are contrary.  
Therefore, O harlot, hear the word of the LORD:  
Thus says the Lord GOD: Because your filthiness was poured out, and your nakedness discovered through your whoredoms with your lovers, and with all the idols of your abominations, and by the blood of your children, which you gave to them;  
Behold, therefore, I will gather all your lovers, with whom you have taken pleasure, and all those whom you have loved, with all those whom you have hated; I will gather them round about against you, and will uncover your nakedness to them, that they may see all your nakedness.  
And I will judge you as women who break wedlock and shed blood are judged; and I will give you blood in fury and jealousy.  
I will also give you into their hand, and they shall throw down your eminent place and break down your high places; they shall strip you of your clothes, and take your beautiful jewels, and leave you naked and bare.  
They shall also bring up a company against you, and they shall stone you with stones and thrust you through with their swords.  
They shall burn your houses with fire and execute judgments upon you in the sight of many women; and I will cause you to cease from playing the harlot, and you shall no longer give hire.  
So will I make my fury toward you to rest, and my jealousy shall depart from you, and I will be quiet and will no longer be angry.  
Because you have not remembered the days of your youth, but have troubled me in all these things; behold, therefore, I also will recompense your way upon your head, says the Lord GOD: and you shall not commit this lewdness above all your abominations.  
Behold, everyone who uses proverbs shall use this proverb against you, saying, 'As is the mother, so is her daughter.'  
You are your mother's daughter, who loathed her husband and her children; and you are the sister of your sisters, who loathed their husbands and their children: your mother was a Hittite, and your father an Amorite.  
Your elder sister is Samaria, she and her daughters who dwell at your left hand; and your younger sister, who dwells at your right hand, is Sodom and her daughters.  
Yet you have not walked in their ways, nor done according to their abominations; but, as if that were a very little thing, you were corrupted more than they in all your ways.  
As I live, says the Lord GOD, Sodom your sister has not done, she nor her daughters, as you have done, you and your daughters.  
Behold, this was the iniquity of your sister Sodom: pride, fullness of bread, and abundance of idleness were in her and in her daughters; neither did she strengthen the hand of the poor and needy.  
They were haughty and committed abomination before me; therefore, I took them away as I saw fit.  
Neither has Samaria committed half of your sins; but you have multiplied your abominations more than they, and have justified your sisters in all your abominations which you have done.  
You also, who have judged your sisters, bear your own shame for your sins that you have committed, more abominable than theirs: they are more righteous than you; yes, be confounded also, and bear your shame, in that you have justified your sisters.  
When I bring back their captivity, the captivity of Sodom and her daughters, and the captivity of Samaria and her daughters, then I will bring back the captivity of your captives in the midst of them:  
That you may bear your own shame and be confounded in all that you have done, in that you are a comfort to them.  
When your sisters, Sodom and her daughters, return to their former state, and Samaria and her daughters return to their former state, then you and your daughters shall return to your former state.  
For your sister Sodom was not mentioned by your mouth in the day of your pride,  
Before your wickedness was discovered, as at the time of your reproach of the daughters of Syria, and all those around her, the daughters of the Philistines, who despise you round about.  
You have borne your lewdness and your abominations, says the LORD.  
For thus says the Lord GOD: I will deal with you as you have done, who have despised the oath in breaking the covenant.  
Nevertheless, I will remember my covenant with you in the days of your youth, and I will establish an everlasting covenant with you.  
Then you shall remember your ways and be ashamed, when you receive your sisters, your elder and your younger; and I will give them to you as daughters, but not by your covenant.  
I will establish my covenant with you; and you shall know that I am the LORD:  
That you may remember and be confounded, and never open your mouth anymore because of your shame, when I am pacified toward you for all that you have done, says the Lord GOD.