Hear my prayer, O LORD, and let my cry reach you.  
Do not hide your face from me in my time of trouble; incline your ear to me: answer me quickly when I call.  
For my days vanish like smoke, and my bones burn like a furnace.  
My heart is crushed and withered like grass; I forget to eat my bread.  
Because of my groaning, my bones cling to my skin.  
I am like a pelican in the wilderness; I am like an owl in the desert.  
I watch, and I am like a solitary sparrow on the rooftop.  
My enemies taunt me all day long; those who rage against me have sworn against me.  
I have eaten ashes instead of bread and mingled my drink with tears.  
Because of your anger and wrath: you have lifted me up and cast me down.  
My days are like a fading shadow; I wither like grass.  
But you, O LORD, endure forever; your remembrance lasts through all generations.  
You will arise and have mercy on Zion; the time to favor her, yes, the appointed time, has come.  
For your servants delight in her stones and take pleasure in her dust.  
So the nations will fear the name of the LORD, and all the kings of the earth will see your glory.  
When the LORD rebuilds Zion, he will appear in his glory.  
He will regard the prayer of the destitute and will not despise their plea.  
This will be written for the future generation; the people yet to be created will praise the LORD.  
For he has looked down from the height of his sanctuary; from heaven, the LORD has observed the earth;  
To hear the groaning of the prisoner and to free those appointed to death;  
To declare the name of the LORD in Zion and his praise in Jerusalem;  
When the people gather together and the kingdoms to serve the LORD.  
He has weakened my strength along the way; he has shortened my days.  
I said, O my God, do not take me away in the midst of my days: your years endure through all generations.  
In the beginning, you laid the foundation of the earth; the heavens are the work of your hands.  
They will perish, but you will endure; yes, all of them will wear out like a garment; like clothing, you will change them, and they will be changed.  
But you are the same, and your years will never end.  
The children of your servants will continue, and their descendants will be established before you.