Therefore, since we have this ministry, and have received mercy, we do not lose heart;  
But we have renounced the hidden things of dishonesty, not walking in craftiness, nor handling the word of God deceitfully; rather, by the manifestation of the truth, we commend ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God.  
But if our gospel is hidden, it is hidden to those who are lost;  
In whom the god of this world has blinded the minds of those who do not believe, so that the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should not shine on them.  
For we do not preach ourselves, but Christ Jesus as Lord; and ourselves as your servants for Jesus' sake.  
For God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, has shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ.  
But we have this treasure in earthen vessels, so that the excellence of the power may be of God and not of us.  
We are troubled on every side, yet not distressed; we are perplexed, but not in despair;  
Persecuted, but not forsaken; struck down, but not destroyed;  
Always carrying in our body the dying of the Lord Jesus, so that the life of Jesus may also be made manifest in our body.  
For we who live are always delivered to death for Jesus' sake, so that the life of Jesus may also be made manifest in our mortal flesh.  
So then, death works in us, but life in you.  
We have the same spirit of faith, as it is written, "I believed, and therefore I have spoken"; we also believe, and therefore speak;  
Knowing that He who raised the Lord Jesus will also raise us up with Jesus and present us with you.  
For all things are for your sakes, so that the abundant grace may, through the thanksgiving of many, redound to the glory of God.  
For this reason, we do not lose heart; though our outward man is perishing, yet the inward man is being renewed day by day.  
For our light affliction, which is but for a moment, is working for us a far more exceeding and eternal weight of glory;  
While we do not look at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen; for the things which are seen are temporary, but the things which are not seen are eternal.  