In those days, Hezekiah was gravely ill. The prophet Isaiah, son of Amoz, came to him and said, "Thus says the LORD: Set your house in order, for you shall die and not live."
Then he turned his face to the wall and prayed to the LORD, saying,
"I beseech you, O LORD, remember how I have walked before you in truth and with a perfect heart, and have done what is good in your sight." And Hezekiah wept bitterly.
And it came to pass, before Isaiah had gone out into the middle court, that the word of the LORD came to him, saying,
"Turn back and tell Hezekiah, the leader of my people, 'Thus says the LORD, the God of David your father: I have heard your prayer; I have seen your tears. Behold, I will heal you; on the third day, you shall go up to the house of the LORD.'"
"And I will add fifteen years to your life; I will deliver you and this city from the hand of the king of Assyria, and I will defend this city for my own sake and for the sake of my servant David."
And Isaiah said, "Take a lump of figs." They took it and laid it on the boil, and he recovered.
And Hezekiah said to Isaiah, "What shall be the sign that the LORD will heal me and that I shall go up to the house of the LORD on the third day?"
And Isaiah said, "This shall be the sign to you from the LORD, that the LORD will do the thing he has spoken: Shall the shadow go forward ten degrees, or go back ten degrees?"
And Hezekiah answered, "It is an easy thing for the shadow to go down ten degrees; no, but let the shadow return backward ten degrees."
And Isaiah the prophet cried out to the LORD, and he brought the shadow ten degrees backward, by which it had gone down on the dial of Ahaz.
At that time, Berodachbaladan, son of Baladan, king of Babylon, sent letters and a gift to Hezekiah, for he had heard that Hezekiah had been ill.
And Hezekiah listened to them and showed them all the house of his treasures, the silver, the gold, the spices, the precious ointment, and all the armory, and everything that was found in his treasures; there was nothing in his house or in all his dominion that Hezekiah did not show them.
Then Isaiah the prophet came to King Hezekiah and said to him, "What did these men say, and from where did they come to you?" And Hezekiah said, "They have come from a far country, from Babylon."
And he said, "What have they seen in your house?" And Hezekiah answered, "They have seen all that is in my house; there is nothing among my treasures that I have not shown them."
And Isaiah said to Hezekiah, "Hear the word of the LORD.
Behold, the days are coming when all that is in your house and what your fathers have stored up to this day shall be carried to Babylon; nothing shall be left, says the LORD.
And of your sons who shall come from you, whom you shall beget, they shall take away, and they shall be eunuchs in the palace of the king of Babylon."
Then Hezekiah said to Isaiah, "The word of the LORD which you have spoken is good." For he said, "Will there not be peace and truth in my days?"
And the rest of the acts of Hezekiah, and all his might, and how he made a pool and a conduit and brought water into the city, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?
And Hezekiah slept with his fathers, and Manasseh, his son, reigned in his stead.
