O give thanks to the LORD, for He is good; His mercy endures forever.
Let Israel now proclaim that His mercy endures forever.
Let the house of Aaron now declare that His mercy endures forever.
Let all who fear the LORD now say that His mercy endures forever.
I called upon the LORD in my distress; the LORD answered me and set me in a spacious place.
The LORD is on my side; I will not fear; what can mere mortals do to me?
The LORD takes my part with those who help me; therefore, I will see my desire upon those who oppose me.
It is better to trust in the LORD than to place confidence in humans.
It is better to trust in the LORD than to place confidence in princes.
All nations surrounded me, but in the name of the LORD, I will cut them down.
They surrounded me on every side; yes, they surrounded me, but in the name of the LORD, I will cut them down.
They surrounded me like bees; they are extinguished like a fire of thorns; for in the name of the LORD, I will cut them down.
You pushed me hard so that I might fall, but the LORD helped me.
The LORD is my strength and my song; He has become my salvation.
The voice of rejoicing and salvation is in the tents of the righteous; the right hand of the LORD acts valiantly.
The right hand of the LORD is exalted; the right hand of the LORD acts valiantly.
I shall not die, but live, and declare the works of the LORD.
The LORD has chastened me severely, but He has not given me over to death.
Open to me the gates of righteousness; I will enter them and give thanks to the LORD.
This is the gate of the LORD; the righteous shall enter through it.
I will praise You, for You have heard me and have become my salvation.
The stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone.
This is the LORD's doing; it is marvelous in our eyes.
This is the day that the LORD has made; we will rejoice and be glad in it.
Save now, I pray, O LORD; O LORD, I pray, send now prosperity.
Blessed is he who comes in the name of the LORD; we bless you from the house of the LORD.
God is the LORD who has shown us light; bind the sacrifice with cords to the horns of the altar.
You are my God, and I will praise You; You are my God, I will exalt You.
O give thanks to the LORD, for He is good; His mercy endures forever.
