And Israel settled in Shittim, and the people began to engage in immoral relations with the daughters of Moab.  
They invited the people to the sacrifices of their gods; the people ate and bowed down to these gods.  
Israel became associated with Baalpeor, and the anger of the LORD was ignited against Israel.  
The LORD instructed Moses to take all the leaders of the people and hang them up before the LORD in the sunlight, so that His fierce anger might be turned away from Israel.  
Moses told the judges of Israel, "Each of you must kill those men who have joined themselves to Baalpeor."  
Then, one of the children of Israel came and brought a Midianite woman to his brothers in the sight of Moses and all the congregation of the children of Israel, who were weeping at the entrance of the tabernacle.  
When Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the priest, saw this, he rose from among the congregation and took a javelin in his hand.  
He followed the Israelite man into the tent and pierced both of them through—the Israelite man and the woman through her abdomen. Thus, the plague was halted among the children of Israel.  
Those who died in the plague numbered twenty-four thousand.  
The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,  
"Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the priest, has turned my wrath away from the children of Israel, because he was zealous for my honor among them, preventing me from consuming the children of Israel in my jealousy.  
Therefore, declare: 'Behold, I give him my covenant of peace.  
He will have it, and his descendants after him, the covenant of an everlasting priesthood; because he was zealous for his God and made atonement for the children of Israel.'"  
The name of the Israelite who was killed with the Midianite woman was Zimri, the son of Salu, a leader of a prominent family among the Simeonites.  
The name of the Midianite woman who was killed was Cozbi, the daughter of Zur; he was the head of a people and a prominent family in Midian.  
The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,  
"Harass the Midianites and strike them down,  
For they have troubled you with their deceit, leading you astray in the matter of Peor and in the case of Cozbi, the daughter of a prince of Midian, who was slain on the day of the plague because of Peor."