He who is wounded in the genitals, or has had his private member cut off, shall not enter the congregation of the LORD.  
A child born out of wedlock shall not enter the congregation of the LORD; even to his tenth generation shall he not enter the congregation of the LORD.  
An Ammonite or Moabite shall not enter the congregation of the LORD; even to their tenth generation shall they not enter the congregation of the LORD forever:  
Because they did not meet you with bread and water on your journey, when you came out of Egypt; and because they hired Balaam the son of Beor from Pethor of Mesopotamia to curse you.  
Nevertheless, the LORD your God would not listen to Balaam; but the LORD your God turned the curse into a blessing for you, because the LORD your God loved you.  
You shall not seek their peace nor their prosperity all your days forever.  
You shall not despise an Edomite, for he is your brother; you shall not despise an Egyptian, because you were a stranger in his land.  
The children born to them shall enter the congregation of the LORD in their third generation.  
When the army goes out against your enemies, then keep yourself from every wicked thing.  
If there is among you any man who is unclean due to a nocturnal emission, he shall go outside the camp and not come within the camp:  
But when evening comes, he shall wash himself with water; and when the sun has set, he shall come into the camp again.  
You shall have a place outside the camp where you may go to relieve yourself:  
And you shall have a spade with your equipment; and when you relieve yourself, you shall dig with it and cover up what comes from you:  
For the LORD your God walks in the midst of your camp to deliver you and to give up your enemies before you; therefore, your camp shall be holy, so that He may see no unclean thing in you and turn away from you.  
You shall not return to his master the servant who has escaped from his master to you:  
He shall dwell with you, even among you, in that place which he chooses within one of your gates, where it pleases him best; you shall not oppress him.  
There shall be no prostitute among the daughters of Israel, nor a male prostitute among the sons of Israel.  
You shall not bring the hire of a prostitute or the price of a dog into the house of the LORD your God for any vow; for both of these are an abomination to the LORD your God.  
You shall not lend on interest to your brother; interest on money, interest on food, interest on anything that is lent on interest:  
To a foreigner, you may lend on interest; but to your brother, you shall not lend on interest, so that the LORD your God may bless you in all that you set your hand to in the land you are entering to possess.  
When you make a vow to the LORD your God, you shall not delay to pay it; for the LORD your God will surely require it of you, and it would be sin in you.  
But if you refrain from making a vow, it shall be no sin in you.  
That which has gone out of your lips you shall keep and perform; even a freewill offering, according as you have vowed to the LORD your God, which you have promised with your mouth.  
When you enter your neighbor's vineyard, you may eat grapes to your fill at your own pleasure; but you shall not put any in your vessel.  
When you enter the standing grain of your neighbor, you may pluck the heads with your hand; but you shall not use a sickle on your neighbor's standing grain.