Here is the edited version of each line:
And it shall come to pass, if you listen carefully to the voice of the LORD your God, to observe and to do all His commandments which I command you this day, that the LORD your God will elevate you above all nations of the earth.
And all these blessings shall come upon you and overtake you, if you listen to the voice of the LORD your God.
Blessed shall you be in the city, and blessed shall you be in the field.
Blessed shall be the fruit of your body, the fruit of your ground, and the fruit of your cattle, the increase of your herds, and the flocks of your sheep.
Blessed shall be your basket and your store.
Blessed shall you be when you come in, and blessed shall you be when you go out.
The LORD shall cause your enemies who rise up against you to be defeated before your eyes: they shall come out against you one way and flee before you seven ways.
The LORD shall command the blessing upon you in your storehouses and in all that you set your hand to; and He shall bless you in the land which the LORD your God gives you.
The LORD shall establish you as a holy people unto Himself, as He has sworn to you, if you keep the commandments of the LORD your God and walk in His ways.
And all the peoples of the earth shall see that you are called by the name of the LORD; and they shall be afraid of you.
And the LORD shall make you abundant in goods, in the fruit of your body, in the fruit of your cattle, and in the fruit of your ground, in the land which the LORD swore to your fathers to give you.
The LORD shall open to you His good treasure, the heavens to give rain to your land in its season, and to bless all the work of your hands: and you shall lend to many nations, and you shall not borrow.
And the LORD shall make you the head and not the tail; and you shall be above only, and you shall not be beneath; if you listen to the commandments of the LORD your God, which I command you this day, to observe and to do them.
And you shall not turn aside from any of the words which I command you this day, to the right or to the left, to go after other gods to serve them.
But it shall come to pass, if you will not listen to the voice of the LORD your God, to observe and do all His commandments and His statutes which I command you this day; that all these curses shall come upon you and overtake you.
Cursed shall you be in the city, and cursed shall you be in the field.
Cursed shall be your basket and your store.
Cursed shall be the fruit of your body, and the fruit of your land, the increase of your herds, and the flocks of your sheep.
Cursed shall you be when you come in, and cursed shall you be when you go out.
The LORD shall send upon you cursing, confusion, and rebuke, in all that you set your hand to do, until you are destroyed and perish quickly; because of the wickedness of your deeds, whereby you have forsaken Me.
The LORD shall make the pestilence cling to you, until He has consumed you from off the land, where you go to possess it.
The LORD shall strike you with consumption, fever, inflammation, extreme burning, the sword, blasting, and mildew; and they shall pursue you until you perish.
And your heaven that is over your head shall be bronze, and the earth that is under you shall be iron.
The LORD shall make the rain of your land powder and dust: from heaven shall it come down upon you, until you are destroyed.
The LORD shall cause you to be defeated before your enemies: you shall go out one way against them and flee seven ways before them; and you shall be removed into all the kingdoms of the earth.
And your carcass shall be food for all the birds of the air and the beasts of the earth, and no man shall frighten them away.
The LORD will strike you with the boils of Egypt, with tumors, scabs, and itch, from which you cannot be healed.
The LORD shall strike you with madness, blindness, and confusion of heart.
And you shall grope at noonday, as the blind gropes in darkness, and you shall not prosper in your ways: and you shall be only oppressed and plundered continually, and no man shall save you.
You shall betroth a wife, and another man shall lie with her; you shall build a house, and you shall not dwell in it; you shall plant a vineyard, and shall not gather the grapes thereof.
Your ox shall be slain before your eyes, and you shall not eat of it; your donkey shall be violently taken away from before your face, and shall not be restored to you; your sheep shall be given to your enemies, and you shall have none to rescue them.
Your sons and your daughters shall be given to another people, and your eyes shall look and fail with longing for them all day long; and there shall be no strength in your hand.
The fruit of your land and all your labors shall a nation which you do not know eat up; and you shall be only oppressed and crushed continually.
So that you shall be driven mad by the sight of your eyes which you shall see.
The LORD shall strike you in the knees and in the legs with a sore boil that cannot be healed, from the sole of your foot to the top of your head.
The LORD shall bring you and your king whom you set over you, to a nation which neither you nor your fathers have known; and there you shall serve other gods, wood and stone.
And you shall become an astonishment, a proverb, and a byword among all nations where the LORD shall lead you.
You shall carry much seed out into the field, and shall gather but little in; for the locust shall consume it.
You shall plant vineyards and cultivate them, but shall neither drink of the wine nor gather the grapes; for the worms shall eat them.
You shall have olive trees throughout all your territory, but you shall not anoint yourself with the oil; for your olives shall drop off.
You shall beget sons and daughters, but you shall not enjoy them; for they shall go into captivity.
All your trees and the fruit of your land shall the locust consume.
The stranger who is among you shall rise higher and higher above you, and you shall come down lower and lower.
He shall lend to you, and you shall not lend to him; he shall be the head, and you shall be the tail.
Moreover, all these curses shall come upon you and pursue you and overtake you, until you are destroyed; because you did not listen to the voice of the LORD your God, to keep His commandments and His statutes which He commanded you.
And they shall be upon you for a sign and for a wonder, and upon your descendants forever.
Because you did not serve the LORD your God with joyfulness and gladness of heart, for the abundance of all things;
Therefore you shall serve your enemies whom the LORD shall send against you, in hunger, thirst, nakedness, and in want of all things: and He shall put a yoke of iron upon your neck, until He has destroyed you.
The LORD shall bring a nation against you from far, from the end of the earth, as swift as the eagle flies; a nation whose language you shall not understand;
A nation of fierce countenance, which shall not regard the person of the old, nor show favor to the young.
And he shall eat the fruit of your cattle and the fruit of your land, until you are destroyed: which also shall not leave you either corn, wine, or oil, or the increase of your herds, or flocks of your sheep, until he has destroyed you.
And he shall besiege you in all your gates, until your high and fortified walls come down, in which you trusted, throughout all your land: and he shall besiege you in all your gates throughout all your land, which the LORD your God has given you.
And you shall eat the fruit of your own body, the flesh of your sons and of your daughters, which the LORD your God has given you, in the siege and in the distress, wherewith your enemies shall distress you.
So that the man who is tender among you, and very delicate, his eye shall be evil toward his brother, and toward the wife of his bosom, and toward the remnant of his children whom he shall leave.
So that he will not give to any of them of the flesh of his children whom he shall eat; because he has nothing left him in the siege and in the distress, wherewith your enemies shall distress you in all your gates.
The tender and delicate woman among you, who would not venture to set the sole of her foot upon the ground for delicateness and tenderness, her eye shall be evil toward the husband of her bosom, and toward her son, and toward her daughter,
And toward her young one that comes out from between her feet, and toward her children which she shall bear: for she shall eat them for want of all things secretly in the siege and distress, wherewith your enemy shall distress you in your gates.
If you will not observe to do all the words of this law that are written in this book, that you may fear this glorious and fearful name, THE LORD YOUR GOD;
Then the LORD will make your plagues extraordinary, and the plagues of your descendants, even great plagues, and of long continuance, and severe sicknesses, and of long continuance.
Moreover, He will bring upon you all the diseases of Egypt, which you were afraid of; and they shall cling to you.
Also, every sickness and every plague, which is not written in the book of this law, them will the LORD bring upon you, until you are destroyed.
And you shall be left few in number, whereas you were as the stars of heaven for multitude; because you would not obey the voice of the LORD your God.
And it shall come to pass, that as the LORD rejoiced over you to do you good and to multiply you; so the LORD will rejoice over you to destroy you and to bring you to nothing; and you shall be plucked from off the land where you go to possess it.
And the LORD shall scatter you among all peoples, from one end of the earth even to the other; and there you shall serve other gods, which neither you nor your fathers have known, even wood and stone.
And among these nations, you shall find no ease, neither shall the sole of your foot have rest: but the LORD shall give you there a trembling heart, failing eyes, and sorrow of mind.
And your life shall hang in doubt before you; and you shall fear day and night, and shall have no assurance of your life.
In the morning you shall say, Would God it were evening! and at evening you shall say, Would God it were morning! for the fear of your heart wherewith you shall fear, and for the sight of your eyes which you shall see.
And the LORD shall bring you into Egypt again with ships, by the way of which I spoke unto you, You shall see it no more again: and there you shall be sold to your enemies for bondmen and bondwomen, and no man shall buy you.
