Therefore, son of man, prophesy against Gog, and say, Thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I am against you, O Gog, the chief prince of Meshech and Tubal.  
And I will turn you back, leaving only a sixth of your forces, and I will cause you to come up from the northern regions, bringing you upon the mountains of Israel.  
I will strike your bow from your left hand and cause your arrows to fall from your right hand.  
You shall fall upon the mountains of Israel, you and all your troops, along with the people who are with you; I will give you to the ravenous birds of every kind and to the beasts of the field to be devoured.  
You shall fall in the open field, for I have spoken it, says the Lord GOD.  
I will send fire upon Magog and among those who dwell carelessly in the isles; they shall know that I am the LORD.  
Thus, I will make my holy name known in the midst of my people Israel; I will not allow them to pollute my holy name any longer, and the nations shall know that I am the LORD, the Holy One in Israel.  
Behold, it has come, and it is done, says the Lord GOD; this is the day of which I have spoken.  
Those who dwell in the cities of Israel shall go out, set fire to, and burn the weapons—both shields and bucklers, bows and arrows, handstaves, and spears—and they shall burn them with fire for seven years.  
So they shall take no wood from the field, nor cut down any from the forests; for they shall burn the weapons with fire, and they shall plunder those who plundered them and rob those who robbed them, says the Lord GOD.  
It shall come to pass on that day that I will give Gog a burial place in Israel, the valley of the passengers, east of the sea; it shall stop the noses of the passengers, and there they shall bury Gog and all his multitude; they shall call it The Valley of Hamongog.  
For seven months, the house of Israel shall be burying them to cleanse the land.  
Yes, all the people of the land shall bury them; it shall be a renown for them on the day that I am glorified, says the Lord GOD.  
They shall appoint men of continual employment, passing through the land to bury with the passengers those who remain on the face of the earth, to cleanse it; after seven months, they shall search.  
When the passengers pass through the land and see a man's bone, they shall set up a sign by it until the buriers have buried it in the Valley of Hamongog.  
The name of the city shall also be Hamonah. Thus shall they cleanse the land.  
And, son of man, thus says the Lord GOD: Speak to every feathered fowl and to every beast of the field, Assemble yourselves and come; gather on every side to my sacrifice that I am preparing for you, even a great sacrifice upon the mountains of Israel, that you may eat flesh and drink blood.  
You shall eat the flesh of the mighty and drink the blood of the princes of the earth, of rams, lambs, goats, and bullocks, all of them fatlings of Bashan.  
You shall eat fat until you are full and drink blood until you are drunk from my sacrifice which I have prepared for you.  
Thus, you shall be filled at my table with horses and chariots, with mighty men and all men of war, says the Lord GOD.  
I will set my glory among the nations, and all the nations shall see my judgment that I have executed and my hand that I have laid upon them.  
So the house of Israel shall know that I am the LORD their God from that day forward.  
The nations shall know that the house of Israel went into captivity for their iniquity; because they trespassed against me, I hid my face from them and gave them into the hand of their enemies; so they fell by the sword.  
According to their uncleanness and their transgressions, I have dealt with them and hidden my face from them.  
Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD: Now I will bring back the captivity of Jacob and have mercy upon the whole house of Israel, and I will be jealous for my holy name.  
After they have borne their shame and all their trespasses against me, when they dwelt safely in their land and none made them afraid.  
When I have brought them back from the nations and gathered them from their enemies' lands, and am sanctified in them in the sight of many nations;  
Then they shall know that I am the LORD their God, who caused them to be led into captivity among the nations; but I have gathered them to their own land and have left none of them there anymore.  
Neither will I hide my face from them anymore, for I have poured out my Spirit upon the house of Israel, says the Lord GOD.