How has the LORD covered the daughter of Zion with a cloud in His anger, and cast down from heaven to the earth the beauty of Israel, and not remembered His footstool on the day of His wrath?
The LORD has swallowed up all the dwellings of Jacob and has shown no pity; He has thrown down in His wrath the strongholds of the daughter of Judah, bringing them down to the ground and defiling the kingdom and its princes.
He has cut off all the strength of Israel in His fierce anger; He has withdrawn His right hand from before the enemy and burned against Jacob like a flaming fire that consumes all around.
He has bent His bow like an enemy; He stood with His right hand as an adversary and struck down all that was pleasing to the eye in the tabernacle of the daughter of Zion, pouring out His fury like fire.
The LORD has acted as an enemy; He has swallowed up Israel and all her palaces; He has destroyed her strongholds and increased mourning and lamentation in the daughter of Judah.
He has violently taken away His tabernacle, as if it were a garden; He has destroyed His places of assembly; the LORD has caused the solemn feasts and sabbaths to be forgotten in Zion and has despised the king and the priest in the indignation of His anger.
The LORD has cast off His altar; He has abhorred His sanctuary; He has given the walls of her palaces into the hands of the enemy; they have made a noise in the house of the LORD, as on the day of a solemn feast.
The LORD has purposed to destroy the wall of the daughter of Zion; He has stretched out a measuring line and has not withdrawn His hand from destruction; therefore, He has made the rampart and the wall to lament; they have languished together.
Her gates have sunk into the ground; He has destroyed and broken her bars; her king and her princes are among the Gentiles; the law is no more; her prophets also find no vision from the LORD.
The elders of the daughter of Zion sit on the ground in silence; they have thrown dust upon their heads and girded themselves with sackcloth; the virgins of Jerusalem bow their heads to the ground.
My eyes fail with tears; my heart is troubled; my liver is poured out on the earth for the destruction of the daughter of my people, as the children and infants faint in the streets of the city.
They say to their mothers, "Where is grain and wine?" as they swoon like the wounded in the streets of the city, when their souls are poured out into their mothers' bosoms.
What can I take to witness for you? What can I liken to you, O daughter of Jerusalem? What can I compare to you that I may comfort you, O virgin daughter of Zion? For your breach is great like the sea; who can heal you?
Your prophets have seen vain and foolish things for you; they have not discovered your iniquity to turn away your captivity, but have seen for you false burdens and causes of banishment.
All who pass by clap their hands at you; they hiss and shake their heads at the daughter of Jerusalem, saying, "Is this the city that men call The perfection of beauty, The joy of the whole earth?"
All your enemies have opened their mouths against you; they hiss and gnash their teeth; they say, "We have swallowed her up; certainly, this is the day we looked for; we have found it, we have seen it."
The LORD has done what He had devised; He has fulfilled His word that He commanded in days of old; He has thrown down and has not shown pity; He has caused your enemy to rejoice over you and has raised the horn of your adversaries.
Their hearts cried out to the LORD, "O wall of the daughter of Zion, let tears run down like a river day and night; give yourself no rest; let not the apple of your eye cease."
Arise, cry out in the night; at the beginning of the watches, pour out your heart like water before the face of the LORD; lift up your hands toward Him for the life of your young children, who faint for hunger at the top of every street.
Behold, O LORD, and consider to whom You have done this. Shall the women eat their fruit, the children of a span long? Shall the priest and the prophet be slain in the sanctuary of the LORD?
The young and the old lie on the ground in the streets; my virgins and my young men have fallen by the sword; You have slain them in the day of Your anger; You have killed and shown no pity.
You have called as on a solemn day my terrors all around, so that in the day of the LORD's anger, none escaped nor remained; those whom I swaddled and brought up have my enemy consumed.
