Listen to the word that the LORD has spoken against you, O children of Israel, against the entire family that I brought up from the land of Egypt, saying,  
You alone have I known among all the families of the earth; therefore, I will punish you for all your iniquities.  
Can two walk together unless they are in agreement?  
Will a lion roar in the forest when he has no prey? Will a young lion cry out from his den if he has taken nothing?  
Can a bird fall into a snare on the earth where there is no trap set for him? Can one lift a snare from the earth and have taken nothing at all?  
Shall a trumpet be blown in the city, and the people not be afraid? Is there disaster in a city, and the LORD has not caused it?  
Surely the Lord GOD does nothing without revealing His secret to His servants the prophets.  
The lion has roared; who will not fear? The Lord GOD has spoken; who can help but prophesy?  
Proclaim in the palaces at Ashdod and in the palaces in the land of Egypt, and say, "Gather yourselves on the mountains of Samaria, and witness the great tumult in the midst of it, and the oppression within."  
For they do not know how to do right, says the LORD, who store up violence and robbery in their palaces.  
Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD: An adversary will surround the land, and he will bring down your strength from you, and your palaces will be plundered.  
Thus says the LORD: As a shepherd rescues from the mouth of the lion two legs or a piece of an ear, so shall the children of Israel be rescued who dwell in Samaria, in the corner of a bed, and in Damascus on a couch.  
Hear and testify in the house of Jacob, says the Lord GOD, the God of hosts,  
That on the day I visit the transgressions of Israel upon him, I will also visit the altars of Bethel; the horns of the altar shall be cut off and fall to the ground.  
And I will strike the winter house along with the summer house; the houses of ivory shall perish, and the great houses shall come to an end, says the LORD.