For the law serves as a shadow of good things to come, not the actual substance of those things, and can never, through the sacrifices offered year after year, make those who approach it perfect.  
If that were the case, would they not have ceased to be offered? For the worshippers, once cleansed, would have no more consciousness of sins.  
However, in those sacrifices, there is a reminder of sins every year.  
For it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins.  
Therefore, when he comes into the world, he says, "Sacrifice and offering you did not desire, but a body you have prepared for me."  
In burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin, you have had no pleasure.  
Then I said, "Here I am; I have come (in the scroll of the book it is written about me) to do your will, O God."  
Previously, when he said, "Sacrifice and offering, burnt offerings, and offerings for sin you did not desire, nor had pleasure in them," which are offered according to the law;  
Then he said, "Here I am to do your will, O God." He takes away the first to establish the second.  
By that will, we are sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.  
And every priest stands daily ministering and offering the same sacrifices repeatedly, which can never take away sins.  
But this man, after offering one sacrifice for sins forever, sat down at the right hand of God;  
From that time on, he waits until his enemies are made his footstool.  
For by one offering, he has perfected forever those who are being sanctified.  
The Holy Spirit also testifies to us; for after he had said before,  
"This is the covenant I will make with them after those days, says the Lord: I will put my laws in their hearts, and in their minds, I will write them."  
And their sins and iniquities I will remember no more.  
Now, where there is remission of these, there is no longer an offering for sin.  
Therefore, brethren, having boldness to enter the Holiest by the blood of Jesus,  
By a new and living way, which he has consecrated for us, through the veil, that is, his flesh;  
And having a high priest over the house of God;  
Let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience and our bodies washed with pure water.  
Let us hold fast the confession of our faith without wavering, for he who promised is faithful.  
And let us consider one another to provoke love and good works,  
Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as is the manner of some, but encouraging one another, and so much the more as you see the day approaching.  
For if we sin willfully after we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remains no more sacrifice for sins,  
But a certain fearful expectation of judgment and fiery indignation, which will devour the adversaries.  
Anyone who rejected Moses' law died without mercy on the testimony of two or three witnesses.  
Of how much worse punishment, do you suppose, will he be thought worthy who has trampled the Son of God underfoot, counted the blood of the covenant by which he was sanctified a common thing, and insulted the Spirit of grace?  
For we know him who said, "Vengeance is mine, I will repay," says the Lord. And again, "The Lord will judge his people."  
It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God.  
But recall the former days in which, after you were illuminated, you endured a great struggle with sufferings;  
Partly while you were made a spectacle both by reproaches and tribulations, and partly while you became companions of those who were so treated.  
For you had compassion on me in my chains and joyfully accepted the plundering of your goods, knowing in yourselves that you have a better and an enduring possession in heaven.  
Do not cast away your confidence, which has great reward.  
For you have need of endurance, so that after you have done the will of God, you may receive the promise.  
For yet a little while, and he who is coming will come and will not tarry.  
Now the just shall live by faith; but if anyone draws back, my soul has no pleasure in him.  
But we are not of those who draw back to perdition, but of those who believe to the saving of the soul.