And the LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying,
"Take a census of the sons of Kohath from among the sons of Levi, by their families and the house of their fathers.
From thirty years old and upward to fifty years old, all who enter the service to perform work in the tabernacle of the congregation.
This is the service of the sons of Kohath in the tabernacle of the congregation, concerning the most holy things:
When the camp sets out, Aaron and his sons shall come, take down the covering veil, and cover the ark of testimony with it.
They shall place a covering of badgers' skins over it, and spread a cloth entirely of blue on top, and insert its staves.
On the table of showbread, they shall spread a blue cloth, and place the dishes, spoons, bowls, and covers for the bread on it; the continual bread shall be there.
They shall spread a scarlet cloth over them, cover it with a covering of badgers' skins, and insert its staves.
They shall take a blue cloth and cover the lampstand of light, along with its lamps, tongs, snuffers, and all its oil vessels used in its service.
They shall place it and all its vessels within a covering of badgers' skins and put it on a bar.
On the golden altar, they shall spread a blue cloth, cover it with a covering of badgers' skins, and insert its staves.
They shall take all the instruments of ministry used in the sanctuary, place them in a blue cloth, cover them with a covering of badgers' skins, and put them on a bar.
They shall remove the ashes from the altar and spread a purple cloth over it.
They shall place all its vessels used in service, including censers, fleshhooks, shovels, and basins, on it; they shall spread a covering of badgers' skins over it and insert its staves.
When Aaron and his sons have finished covering the sanctuary and all its vessels, as the camp is to set out, the sons of Kohath shall come to carry it; but they must not touch any holy thing, lest they die. These are the burdens of the sons of Kohath in the tabernacle of the congregation.
The office of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the priest, pertains to the oil for the light, the sweet incense, the daily grain offering, the anointing oil, and the oversight of the entire tabernacle and all that is in it, in the sanctuary and its vessels.
And the LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying,
"Do not cut off the tribe of the families of the Kohathites from among the Levites.
Instead, do this for them so they may live and not die when they approach the most holy things: Aaron and his sons shall go in and assign each one his service and burden.
But they must not go in to see when the holy things are covered, lest they die."
And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
"Take a census of the sons of Gershon, by their families and the houses of their fathers.
From thirty years old and upward to fifty years old, you shall number them; all who enter to perform the service in the tabernacle of the congregation.
This is the service of the families of the Gershonites, to serve and carry burdens:
They shall bear the curtains of the tabernacle, the tabernacle of the congregation, its covering, and the covering of badgers' skins that is above it, and the hanging for the door of the tabernacle of the congregation,
And the hangings of the court, and the hanging for the door of the gate of the court, which is by the tabernacle and the altar round about, along with their cords and all the instruments of their service, and all that is made for them: so shall they serve.
At the appointment of Aaron and his sons shall be all the service of the sons of the Gershonites, in all their burdens and all their service; and you shall assign to them in charge all their burdens.
This is the service of the families of the sons of Gershon in the tabernacle of the congregation: their charge shall be under the hand of Ithamar, the son of Aaron the priest.
As for the sons of Merari, you shall number them by their families and the house of their fathers;
From thirty years old and upward to fifty years old, you shall number them, every one who enters into the service to do the work of the tabernacle of the congregation.
This is the charge of their burden, according to all their service in the tabernacle of the congregation: the boards of the tabernacle, its bars, its pillars, and its sockets,
And the pillars of the court round about, their sockets, pins, and cords, with all their instruments and all their service; you shall reckon the instruments of their burden by name.
This is the service of the families of the sons of Merari, according to all their service in the tabernacle of the congregation, under the hand of Ithamar, the son of Aaron the priest.
Moses, Aaron, and the leaders of the congregation numbered the sons of the Kohathites by their families and the house of their fathers,
From thirty years old and upward to fifty years old, every one who enters into the service for the work in the tabernacle of the congregation.
Those numbered by their families were two thousand seven hundred and fifty.
These were the ones numbered from the families of the Kohathites, all who could serve in the tabernacle of the congregation, which Moses and Aaron numbered according to the command of the LORD through Moses.
Those numbered of the sons of Gershon, by their families and the house of their fathers,
From thirty years old and upward to fifty years old, every one who enters into the service for the work in the tabernacle of the congregation,
Those numbered by their families, by the house of their fathers, were two thousand six hundred and thirty.
These are the ones numbered from the families of the sons of Gershon, all who could serve in the tabernacle of the congregation, whom Moses and Aaron numbered according to the command of the LORD.
Those numbered from the families of the sons of Merari, by their families and the house of their fathers,
From thirty years old and upward to fifty years old, every one who enters into the service for the work in the tabernacle of the congregation,
Those numbered by their families were three thousand two hundred.
These are those numbered from the families of the sons of Merari, whom Moses and Aaron numbered according to the word of the LORD through Moses.
All those numbered of the Levites, whom Moses, Aaron, and the leaders of Israel numbered, by their families and the house of their fathers,
From thirty years old and upward to fifty years old, every one who came to do the service of ministry and the service of burden in the tabernacle of the congregation.
Those numbered among them were eight thousand five hundred and eighty.
According to the command of the LORD, they were numbered by the hand of Moses, each according to his service and burden: thus they were numbered as the LORD commanded Moses.
