Then all the captains of the forces, along with Johanan the son of Kareah, Jezaniah the son of Hoshaiah, and all the people from the least to the greatest, approached.
They said to Jeremiah the prophet, "Let our supplication be accepted before you, and pray for us to the LORD your God, for all this remnant; for we are but a few of many, as you can see."
"That the LORD your God may show us the way we should walk and the things we should do."
Then Jeremiah the prophet replied, "I have heard you; behold, I will pray to the LORD your God according to your words. It shall come to pass that whatever the LORD answers you, I will declare it to you; I will hold nothing back."
They responded to Jeremiah, "The LORD be a true and faithful witness between us, if we do not act according to all the things the LORD your God sends you to tell us."
"Whether it is good or evil, we will obey the voice of the LORD our God, to whom we are sending you, so that it may go well with us when we obey the voice of the LORD our God."
After ten days, the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah.
He then called Johanan the son of Kareah, all the captains of the forces with him, and all the people from the least to the greatest.
He said to them, "Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel, to whom you sent me to present your supplication:
If you will remain in this land, then I will build you up and not tear you down; I will plant you and not uproot you, for I have changed my mind about the disaster I intended for you.
Do not be afraid of the king of Babylon, whom you fear; do not be afraid of him, says the LORD, for I am with you to save you and deliver you from his hand.
I will show you mercy, so that he may have mercy on you and allow you to return to your own land.
But if you say, 'We will not dwell in this land,' and do not obey the voice of the LORD your God,
Saying, 'No, we will go to the land of Egypt, where we will see no war, hear no trumpet, and not suffer hunger; there we will dwell,'
Now therefore hear the word of the LORD, you remnant of Judah: Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: If you set your faces to enter Egypt and go to sojourn there,
Then it shall come to pass that the sword you fear will overtake you in the land of Egypt, and the famine you dread will follow closely after you there; and there you shall die.
So it will be with all the men who set their faces to go into Egypt to sojourn there; they shall die by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence, and none of them shall remain or escape from the disaster I will bring upon them.
For thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Just as my anger and fury have been poured out upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so my fury will be poured out upon you when you enter Egypt; you shall become an object of horror, an astonishment, a curse, and a reproach; and you shall see this place no more.
The LORD has said concerning you, O remnant of Judah: Do not go into Egypt; know for certain that I have warned you today.
For you have deceived yourselves in your hearts when you sent me to the LORD your God, saying, 'Pray for us to the LORD our God, and whatever the LORD our God says, declare it to us, and we will do it.'
And now I have declared it to you today; but you have not obeyed the voice of the LORD your God, nor anything for which he has sent me to you.
Now therefore know for certain that you shall die by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence in the place where you desire to go and to sojourn."
