Who is this that comes from Edom, with dyed garments from Bozrah? Who is this that is glorious in His apparel, traveling in the greatness of His strength? It is I who speak in righteousness, mighty to save.
Why are your garments red, and your clothes like those who tread in the winepress?
I have trodden the winepress alone; and of the people, there was none with me. I will trample them in my anger and crush them in my fury; their blood will be sprinkled on my garments, and I will stain all my raiment.
For the day of vengeance is in my heart, and the year of my redeemed has come.
I looked, and there was no one to help; I wondered that there was no one to uphold me. Therefore, my own arm brought salvation to me, and my fury upheld me.
I will trample down the people in my anger, make them drunk in my fury, and bring down their strength to the earth.
I will recount the lovingkindnesses of the LORD, and the praises of the LORD, according to all that the LORD has bestowed on us, and the great goodness toward the house of Israel, which He has given them according to His mercies, and according to the multitude of His lovingkindnesses.
For He said, "Surely they are my people, children who will not lie." So He became their Savior.
In all their affliction, He was afflicted, and the angel of His presence saved them. In His love and in His pity, He redeemed them; He bore them and carried them all the days of old.
But they rebelled and grieved His holy Spirit; therefore, He turned to be their enemy and fought against them.
Then He remembered the days of old, Moses, and His people, saying, "Where is He who brought them up out of the sea with the shepherd of His flock? Where is He who put His holy Spirit within him?
Who led them by the right hand of Moses with His glorious arm, dividing the waters before them to make Himself an everlasting name?
Who led them through the deep, like a horse in the wilderness, so they would not stumble?
As a beast goes down into the valley, the Spirit of the LORD caused him to rest. So you led your people to make for yourself a glorious name.
Look down from heaven and behold from the habitation of your holiness and glory: where is your zeal and your strength, the yearning of your heart and your mercies toward me? Are they restrained?
Doubtless, you are our Father, though Abraham is ignorant of us, and Israel acknowledges us not. You, O LORD, are our Father, our Redeemer; your name is from everlasting.
O LORD, why have you made us err from your ways and hardened our hearts from your fear? Return for the sake of your servants, the tribes of your inheritance.
The people of your holiness have possessed it but a little while; our adversaries have trampled down your sanctuary.
We are yours; you never ruled over them; they were not called by your name.
