For the kingdom of heaven is like a man who is a householder, who went out early in the morning to hire laborers for his vineyard.
And when he had agreed with the laborers for a penny a day, he sent them into his vineyard.
He went out around the third hour and saw others standing idle in the marketplace,
And said to them, "Go also into the vineyard, and whatever is right, I will give you." So they went their way.
Again, he went out around the sixth and ninth hour and did the same.
And about the eleventh hour, he went out and found others standing idle, and said to them, "Why have you been standing here all day idle?"
They replied, "Because no one has hired us." He said to them, "Go also into the vineyard, and whatever is right, you will receive."
When evening came, the lord of the vineyard said to his steward, "Call the laborers and give them their pay, starting from the last hired to the first."
When those who were hired at the eleventh hour came, each received a penny.
But when the first came, they expected to receive more; yet they also received a penny each.
After receiving it, they complained against the owner of the house,
Saying, "These last worked only one hour, and you have made them equal to us, who have borne the burden and heat of the day."
But he answered one of them, "Friend, I am not being unfair to you. Did you not agree to work for a penny?
Take your pay and go. I want to give the one who was hired last the same as I gave you.
Is it not lawful for me to do what I want with my own money? Or are you envious because I am generous?"
So the last will be first, and the first last; for many are called, but few are chosen.
As Jesus was going up to Jerusalem, he took the twelve disciples aside and said to them,
"Behold, we are going up to Jerusalem, and the Son of Man will be betrayed to the chief priests and the scribes, and they will condemn him to death,
And will deliver him to the Gentiles to mock, to scourge, and to crucify him; and on the third day, he will rise again."
Then the mother of the sons of Zebedee came to him with her sons, worshiping him and asking for something.
He asked her, "What do you want?" She said to him, "Grant that these two sons of mine may sit, one at your right hand and the other at your left, in your kingdom."
But Jesus answered, "You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I am about to drink, and to be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with?" They replied, "We are able."
He said to them, "You will indeed drink from my cup and be baptized with the baptism I am baptized with; but to sit at my right hand and my left is not mine to grant, but it is for those for whom it has been prepared by my Father."
When the ten heard this, they were indignant with the two brothers.
But Jesus called them to him and said, "You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their high officials exercise authority over them.
Not so with you. Instead, whoever wants to become great among you must be your servant,
And whoever wants to be first must be your slave,
Just as the Son of Man did not come to be served, but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many."
As they were leaving Jericho, a large crowd followed him.
And behold, two blind men sitting by the roadside, when they heard that Jesus was passing by, cried out, "Lord, have mercy on us, Son of David!"
The crowd rebuked them, telling them to be quiet; but they cried out all the more, "Lord, have mercy on us, Son of David!"
Jesus stopped and called them, asking, "What do you want me to do for you?"
They said to him, "Lord, let our eyes be opened."
Jesus had compassion on them and touched their eyes; immediately they received their sight and followed him.
