The burden of the valley of vision. What troubles you now, that you have completely ascended to the rooftops?
You who are filled with commotion, a chaotic city, a joyful city: your slain are not killed by the sword, nor fallen in battle.
All your leaders have fled together; they are bound by the archers: all who are found within you are bound together, having escaped from afar.
Therefore, I said, Turn away from me; I will weep bitterly; do not strive to comfort me, because of the devastation of the daughter of my people.
For it is a day of trouble, and of trampling, and of confusion by the Lord GOD of hosts in the valley of vision, tearing down the walls, and crying out to the mountains.
And Elam carried the quiver with chariots of men and horsemen, and Kir uncovered the shield.
And it shall come to pass that your finest valleys will be filled with chariots, and the horsemen will position themselves at the gate.
And he uncovered the covering of Judah, and you looked on that day to the armor of the house of the forest.
You have also seen the breaches in the city of David, that they are numerous; and you gathered the waters of the lower pool.
And you have counted the houses of Jerusalem, and you have broken down the houses to strengthen the wall.
You also made a ditch between the two walls for the water of the old pool; but you have not looked to its Maker, nor respected Him who fashioned it long ago.
And in that day, the Lord GOD of hosts called for weeping, mourning, baldness, and wearing sackcloth:
And behold, joy and gladness, slaughtering oxen, and killing sheep, eating flesh, and drinking wine: let us eat and drink; for tomorrow we shall die.
And it was revealed in my ears by the LORD of hosts, Surely this iniquity shall not be purged from you until you die, says the Lord GOD of hosts.
Thus says the Lord GOD of hosts, Go, get to this treasurer, even to Shebna, who is over the house, and say,
What do you have here? and whom do you have here, that you have hewn out a sepulcher here, as one who carves out a sepulcher on high, and engraves a dwelling for himself in a rock?
Behold, the LORD will carry you away with a mighty captivity, and will surely cover you.
He will surely violently toss you like a ball into a large country: there you shall die, and there the chariots of your glory shall be the disgrace of your lord's house.
And I will drive you from your position, and from your place shall he pull you down.
And it shall come to pass in that day, that I will call my servant Eliakim the son of Hilkiah:
And I will clothe him with your robe, and strengthen him with your belt, and I will commit your authority into his hand: and he shall be a father to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and to the house of Judah.
And the key of the house of David will I place upon his shoulder; so he shall open, and none shall shut; and he shall shut, and none shall open.
And I will fasten him as a nail in a secure place; and he shall be a glorious throne for his father's house.
And they shall hang upon him all the glory of his father's house, the offspring and the descendants, all vessels of small quantity, from the vessels of cups to all the vessels of flagons.
In that day, says the LORD of hosts, the nail that is fastened in the secure place will be removed, and cut down, and fall; and the burden that was upon it shall be cut off: for the LORD has spoken it.
