Nebuchadnezzar, the king, to all peoples, nations, and languages that dwell across the earth: Peace be multiplied to you.
I deemed it good to show the signs and wonders that the Most High God has performed for me.
How great are His signs! How mighty are His wonders! His kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and His dominion is from generation to generation.
I, Nebuchadnezzar, was at rest in my house and flourishing in my palace.
I had a dream that frightened me, and the thoughts on my bed and the visions in my head troubled me.
Therefore, I issued a decree to bring in all the wise men of Babylon before me, so they could make known to me the interpretation of the dream.
Then the magicians, astrologers, Chaldeans, and soothsayers came in, and I told them the dream; but they could not make known to me its interpretation.
Finally, Daniel came in before me, whose name was Belteshazzar, named after my god, and in whom is the spirit of the holy gods. Before him, I shared the dream, saying,
"O Belteshazzar, master of the magicians, I know that the spirit of the holy gods is in you, and no secret troubles you. Tell me the visions of my dream that I have seen, and its interpretation."
These were the visions I saw in my head while on my bed: I looked, and behold, a tree in the midst of the earth, and its height was great.
The tree grew and became strong; its height reached to heaven, and its sight extended to the ends of the earth.
Its leaves were beautiful, and its fruit abundant; in it was food for all. The beasts of the field found shade under it, and the birds of the heavens nested in its branches, and all flesh was fed from it.
I saw in the visions of my head while on my bed, and behold, a watcher, a holy one, came down from heaven.
He cried aloud and said, "Hew down the tree, and cut off its branches, shake off its leaves, and scatter its fruit. Let the beasts flee from under it, and the birds from its branches.
Nevertheless, leave the stump of its roots in the earth, bound with a band of iron and bronze, in the tender grass of the field. Let it be wet with the dew of heaven, and let its portion be with the beasts in the grass of the earth.
Let his heart be changed from that of a man, and let a beast's heart be given to him; and let seven times pass over him.
This matter is by the decree of the watchers, and the demand by the word of the holy ones: to the intent that the living may know that the Most High rules in the kingdom of men, gives it to whomever He wills, and sets over it the basest of men.
This dream I, King Nebuchadnezzar, have seen. Now you, O Belteshazzar, declare its interpretation, since all the wise men of my kingdom are unable to make known to me the interpretation; but you are able, for the spirit of the holy gods is in you.
Then Daniel, whose name was Belteshazzar, was astonished for an hour, and his thoughts troubled him. The king spoke and said, "Belteshazzar, let not the dream or its interpretation trouble you." Belteshazzar answered and said, "My lord, may the dream be for those who hate you, and its interpretation for your enemies."
The tree that you saw, which grew and became strong, whose height reached to heaven, and whose sight extended to all the earth;
Whose leaves were beautiful, and its fruit abundant, and in it was food for all; under which the beasts of the field dwelt, and upon whose branches the birds of the heavens had their habitation:
It is you, O king, who have grown and become strong; for your greatness has grown and reaches to heaven, and your dominion to the ends of the earth.
And as the king saw a watcher, a holy one, coming down from heaven, and saying, "Hew the tree down and destroy it; yet leave the stump of the roots in the earth, bound with a band of iron and bronze, in the tender grass of the field; and let it be wet with the dew of heaven, and let its portion be with the beasts of the field, until seven times pass over him;"
This is the interpretation, O king, and this is the decree of the Most High that has come upon my lord the king:
They shall drive you from men, and your dwelling shall be with the beasts of the field. They shall make you eat grass like oxen, and seven times shall pass over you, until you know that the Most High rules in the kingdom of men, and gives it to whomever He wills.
And as for the command to leave the stump of the tree roots, your kingdom shall be assured to you after you have come to know that the heavens do rule.
Therefore, O king, let my counsel be acceptable to you, and break off your sins by righteousness, and your iniquities by showing mercy to the poor; perhaps there may be a lengthening of your tranquility.
All this came upon King Nebuchadnezzar.
At the end of twelve months, he walked in the palace of the kingdom of Babylon.
The king spoke and said, "Is this not great Babylon, which I have built for the house of the kingdom by the might of my power, and for the honor of my majesty?"
While the word was still in the king's mouth, a voice fell from heaven, saying, "O King Nebuchadnezzar, to you it is spoken: The kingdom has departed from you."
And they shall drive you from men, and your dwelling shall be with the beasts of the field. They shall make you eat grass like oxen, and seven times shall pass over you, until you know that the Most High rules in the kingdom of men, and gives it to whomever He wills.
The same hour, the thing was fulfilled upon Nebuchadnezzar: he was driven from men and ate grass like oxen, and his body was wet with the dew of heaven, until his hair grew like eagles' feathers, and his nails like birds' claws.
And at the end of the days, I, Nebuchadnezzar, lifted up my eyes to heaven, and my understanding returned to me, and I blessed the Most High, and praised and honored Him who lives forever, whose dominion is an everlasting dominion, and His kingdom is from generation to generation.
And all the inhabitants of the earth are regarded as nothing; He does according to His will in the army of heaven and among the inhabitants of the earth; and none can stay His hand or say to Him, "What are You doing?"
At the same time, my reason returned to me; and for the glory of my kingdom, my honor and brightness returned to me; and my counselors and my lords sought me out, and I was established in my kingdom, and excellent majesty was added to me.
Now I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise, extol, and honor the King of heaven, all whose works are truth, and His ways justice; and those who walk in pride, He is able to humble.
