O give thanks to the LORD; call upon His name: make known His deeds among the people.  
Sing to Him, sing psalms to Him: speak of all His wondrous works.  
Glory in His holy name: let the hearts of those who seek the LORD rejoice.  
Seek the LORD and His strength: seek His face continually.  
Remember His marvelous works that He has done; His wonders and the judgments of His mouth.  
O you descendants of Abraham His servant, you children of Jacob His chosen.  
He is the LORD our God; His judgments are in all the earth.  
He has remembered His covenant forever, the word which He commanded to a thousand generations.  
The covenant He made with Abraham, and His oath to Isaac;  
And confirmed it to Jacob as a decree, and to Israel as an everlasting covenant:  
Saying, "To you I will give the land of Canaan, the portion of your inheritance."  
When they were but a few in number; yes, very few, and strangers in it.  
When they went from one nation to another, from one kingdom to another people;  
He allowed no one to oppress them; yes, He reproved kings for their sakes;  
Saying, "Do not touch My anointed ones, and do My prophets no harm."  
Moreover, He called for a famine upon the land; He broke the whole staff of bread.  
He sent a man before them, even Joseph, who was sold as a servant:  
Whose feet they hurt with shackles; he was laid in iron:  
Until the time that His word came; the word of the LORD tested him.  
The king sent and released him; even the ruler of the people, and let him go free.  
He made him lord of his house, and ruler over all his possessions:  
To bind his princes at his pleasure, and teach his elders wisdom.  
Israel also came into Egypt; and Jacob sojourned in the land of Ham.  
And He increased His people greatly, and made them stronger than their enemies.  
He turned their hearts to hate His people, to deal subtly with His servants.  
He sent Moses His servant, and Aaron whom He had chosen.  
They showed His signs among them, and wonders in the land of Ham.  
He sent darkness, and made it dark; and they did not rebel against His word.  
He turned their waters into blood, and killed their fish.  
Their land brought forth frogs in abundance, in the chambers of their kings.  
He spoke, and there came various sorts of flies, and lice in all their borders.  
He gave them hail for rain, and flaming fire in their land.  
He struck their vines and their fig trees; and broke the trees of their borders.  
He spoke, and the locusts came, and caterpillars, without number,  
And ate up all the herbs in their land, and devoured the fruit of their ground.  
He struck also all the firstborn in their land, the chief of all their strength.  
He brought them out also with silver and gold; and there was not one feeble person among their tribes.  
Egypt was glad when they departed; for the fear of them fell upon them.  
He spread a cloud for a covering, and fire to give light in the night.  
The people asked, and He brought quails, and satisfied them with the bread of heaven.  
He opened the rock, and the waters gushed out; they ran in the dry places like a river.  
For He remembered His holy promise, and Abraham His servant.  
And He brought forth His people with joy, and His chosen with gladness:  
And gave them the lands of the nations; and they inherited the labor of the people;  
That they might observe His statutes, and keep His laws. Praise the LORD.