Can you draw out the leviathan with a hook, or pull his tongue with a cord that you let down?  
Can you put a hook in his nose, or pierce his jaw with a thorn?  
Will he make many pleas to you? Will he speak gentle words to you?  
Will he make a covenant with you? Will you take him as a servant forever?  
Will you play with him like a bird, or will you bind him for your maidens?  
Will your companions feast on him? Will they divide him among the merchants?  
Can you fill his skin with barbed irons, or his head with fish spears?  
Lay your hand upon him; remember the battle and do no more.  
Behold, his hope is in vain: will not one be cast down even at the sight of him?  
None is so fierce that dares to stir him up: who then can stand before me?  
Who has prevented me, that I should repay him? Whatever is under the whole heaven is mine.  
I will not conceal his parts, nor his power, nor his graceful form.  
Who can uncover the face of his garment? Who can approach him with a double bridle?  
Who can open the doors of his face? His teeth are fearsome all around.  
His scales are his pride, tightly shut together like a sealed barrier.  
One scale is so close to another that no air can pass between them.  
They are joined one to another; they stick together so that they cannot be separated.  
By his sneezes, light shines, and his eyes are like the eyelids of the morning.  
From his mouth come burning torches, and sparks of fire leap out.  
From his nostrils smoke goes forth, like a boiling pot or cauldron.  
His breath kindles coals, and a flame goes out of his mouth.  
In his neck resides strength, and sorrow is turned into joy before him.  
The flakes of his flesh are tightly joined; they are firm in themselves and cannot be moved.  
His heart is as hard as a stone; yes, as hard as a piece of the lower millstone.  
When he raises himself up, the mighty are afraid; they purify themselves because of his breakings.  
The sword that strikes him cannot prevail; neither the spear, the dart, nor the coat of mail.  
He regards iron as straw, and bronze as rotten wood.  
The arrow cannot make him flee; slingstones are turned to stubble against him.  
Darts are counted as stubble; he laughs at the shaking of a spear.  
Sharp stones are under him; he spreads sharp pointed things upon the mire.  
He makes the deep boil like a pot; he makes the sea like a pot of ointment.  
He leaves a shining path behind him; one would think the deep to be hoary.  
On earth, there is none like him, made without fear.  
He sees all that is high; he is a king over all the children of pride.