Hear this word that I bring against you, a lamentation, O house of Israel.
The virgin of Israel has fallen; she will rise no more: she is forsaken in her land; there is no one to lift her up.
For thus says the Lord GOD: The city that went out with a thousand will leave with a hundred, and that which went out with a hundred will leave with ten, to the house of Israel.
For thus says the LORD to the house of Israel: Seek me, and you shall live.
But do not seek Bethel, nor enter Gilgal, and do not pass to Beersheba; for Gilgal will surely go into captivity, and Bethel will come to nothing.
Seek the LORD, and you shall live; lest He break out like fire in the house of Joseph, and consume it, with none to quench it in Bethel.
You who turn justice into bitterness and forsake righteousness in the land,
Seek Him who made the seven stars and Orion, who turns the shadow of death into morning, and darkens the day into night; who calls for the waters of the sea and pours them out upon the face of the earth: The LORD is His name.
He strengthens the oppressed against the mighty, so that the oppressed will come against the fortress.
They hate him who rebukes in the gate, and they abhor him who speaks uprightly.
Therefore, because you trample on the poor and take from him burdens of wheat: you have built houses of hewn stone, but you will not dwell in them; you have planted pleasant vineyards, but you will not drink their wine.
For I know your many transgressions and your great sins: you afflict the just, take bribes, and turn aside the poor in the gate from their rights.
Therefore, the prudent will keep silent in that time; for it is an evil time.
Seek good, and not evil, that you may live; and so the LORD, the God of hosts, will be with you, as you have spoken.
Hate the evil, and love the good, and establish justice in the gate; perhaps the LORD God of hosts will be gracious to the remnant of Joseph.
Therefore, the LORD, the God of hosts, the LORD, says this: Wailing will be in all streets; and they will say in all the highways, "Alas! Alas!" and they will call the farmer to mourning, and those skilled in lamentation to wailing.
And in all vineyards there will be wailing; for I will pass through you, says the LORD.
Woe to you who desire the day of the LORD! To what end is it for you? The day of the LORD is darkness, and not light.
As if a man fled from a lion, and a bear met him; or went into the house, and leaned his hand on the wall, and a serpent bit him.
Will not the day of the LORD be darkness, and not light? Even very dark, with no brightness in it?
I hate, I despise your feast days, and I will not smell in your solemn assemblies.
Though you offer me burnt offerings and grain offerings, I will not accept them; nor will I regard the peace offerings of your fat beasts.
Take away from me the noise of your songs; for I will not hear the melody of your harps.
But let justice roll down like waters, and righteousness like a mighty stream.
Have you offered to me sacrifices and offerings in the wilderness for forty years, O house of Israel?
But you have borne the tabernacle of your Moloch and Chiun your images, the star of your god, which you made for yourselves.
Therefore, I will send you into captivity beyond Damascus, says the LORD, whose name is The God of hosts.
