And it came to pass, when Samuel grew old, that he appointed his sons as judges over Israel.  
Now the name of his firstborn was Joel, and the name of his second was Abiah; they served as judges in Beersheba.  
However, his sons did not follow his ways; they turned aside for personal gain, accepted bribes, and distorted justice.  
Then all the elders of Israel gathered together and went to Samuel at Ramah,  
and said to him, "Behold, you are old, and your sons do not walk in your ways; now appoint a king to judge us like all the nations."  
But this request displeased Samuel, and he prayed to the LORD.  
And the LORD said to Samuel, "Listen to the voice of the people in all that they say to you; for they have not rejected you, but they have rejected me from reigning over them.  
Just as they have done since the day I brought them up out of Egypt to this day, forsaking me and serving other gods, so they are also doing to you.  
Now therefore, listen to their voice; however, solemnly warn them and show them the manner of the king who will reign over them."  
And Samuel conveyed all the words of the LORD to the people who asked him for a king.  
He said, "This will be the manner of the king who will reign over you: He will take your sons and appoint them for his chariots and to be his horsemen; some will run before his chariots.  
He will appoint captains over thousands and captains over fifties; they will plow his ground, reap his harvest, and make his weapons of war and the equipment for his chariots.  
He will take your daughters to be perfumers, cooks, and bakers.  
He will take your fields, vineyards, and olive groves, the best of them, and give them to his servants.  
He will take a tenth of your seed and your vineyards and give it to his officers and servants.  
He will take your male and female servants, your finest young men, and your donkeys, and put them to his work.  
He will take a tenth of your sheep, and you will become his servants.  
And you will cry out in that day because of your king whom you have chosen for yourselves, but the LORD will not hear you in that day."  
Nevertheless, the people refused to listen to Samuel's warning; they said, "No, but we will have a king over us,  
that we may be like all the nations, and that our king may judge us, go out before us, and fight our battles."  
And Samuel listened to all the words of the people and repeated them in the ears of the LORD.  
And the LORD said to Samuel, "Listen to their voice and appoint them a king." So Samuel said to the men of Israel, "Go, each of you, to your city."