Now when Jacob saw that there was grain in Egypt, Jacob said to his sons, "Why do you look at one another?"
And he said, "Behold, I have heard that there is grain in Egypt; go down there and buy for us from there, that we may live and not die."
And Joseph's ten brothers went down to buy grain in Egypt.
But Benjamin, Joseph's brother, Jacob did not send with his brothers; for he said, "Lest perhaps mischief befall him."
And the sons of Israel came to buy grain among those who came, for the famine was in the land of Canaan.
And Joseph was the governor over the land, and it was he who sold to all the people of the land; and Joseph's brothers came and bowed down before him with their faces to the ground.
And Joseph saw his brothers, and he recognized them, but made himself strange to them and spoke roughly to them; and he said to them, "Where do you come from?" And they said, "From the land of Canaan to buy food."
And Joseph recognized his brothers, but they did not recognize him.
And Joseph remembered the dreams which he had dreamed about them and said to them, "You are spies; to see the nakedness of the land you have come."
And they said to him, "No, my lord, but to buy food your servants have come."
"We are all one man's sons; we are honest men; your servants are no spies."
And he said to them, "No, but to see the nakedness of the land you have come."
And they said, "Your servants are twelve brothers, the sons of one man in the land of Canaan; and behold, the youngest is with our father today, and one is not."
And Joseph said to them, "That is what I spoke to you, saying, 'You are spies.'
Hereby you shall be tested: By the life of Pharaoh, you shall not leave here unless your youngest brother comes here."
"Send one of you, and let him fetch your brother, and you shall be kept in prison, that your words may be tested, whether there is any truth in you; or else, by the life of Pharaoh, surely you are spies."
And he put them all together in custody for three days.
And Joseph said to them on the third day, "Do this and live, for I fear God:
If you are honest men, let one of your brothers be confined in the house of your prison; but you, go carry grain for the famine of your households.
But bring your youngest brother to me, so your words may be verified, and you shall not die." And they did so.
And they said to one another, "We are truly guilty concerning our brother, in that we saw the anguish of his soul when he pleaded with us, and we would not listen; therefore, this distress has come upon us."
And Reuben answered them, saying, "Did I not tell you, saying, 'Do not sin against the child,' and you would not listen? Therefore, behold, his blood is required."
And they did not know that Joseph understood them, for he spoke to them through an interpreter.
And he turned away from them and wept; and returned to them again and spoke with them, and took from them Simeon and bound him before their eyes.
Then Joseph commanded to fill their sacks with grain and to restore every man's money into his sack, and to give them provisions for the journey; and thus he did for them.
And they loaded their donkeys with the grain and departed from there.
And as one of them opened his sack to give his donkey feed at the inn, he saw his money; for behold, it was in the mouth of his sack.
And he said to his brothers, "My money has been restored, and look, it is even in my sack!" And their hearts sank, and they were afraid, saying to one another, "What is this that God has done to us?"
And they came to Jacob their father in the land of Canaan and told him all that had happened to them, saying,
"The man who is the lord of the land spoke roughly to us and took us for spies of the country."
And we said to him, "We are honest men; we are no spies.
We are twelve brothers, sons of our father; one is not, and the youngest is with our father in the land of Canaan."
And the man, the lord of the country, said to us, "By this I will know that you are honest men; leave one of your brothers here with me, and take food for the famine of your households and be gone.
And bring your youngest brother to me; then I will know that you are no spies, but that you are honest men; so I will deliver your brother to you, and you may trade in the land."
And it came to pass as they emptied their sacks, that behold, every man's bundle of money was in his sack; and when both they and their father saw the bundles of money, they were afraid.
And Jacob their father said to them, "You have bereaved me of my children: Joseph is not, and Simeon is not, and you will take Benjamin away; all these things are against me."
And Reuben spoke to his father, saying, "Kill my two sons if I do not bring him back to you; deliver him into my hand, and I will bring him back to you."
And he said, "My son shall not go down with you; for his brother is dead, and he is left alone; if mischief befalls him on the journey you are taking, then you will bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to the grave."
