Now, when Ezra had prayed and confessed, weeping and casting himself down before the house of God, a very large congregation of men, women, and children assembled to him from Israel, for the people wept bitterly.  
And Shechaniah, the son of Jehiel, one of the sons of Elam, answered Ezra, saying, "We have sinned against our God and taken foreign wives from the people of the land; yet now there is hope in Israel regarding this matter."  
Therefore, let us make a covenant with our God to put away all the wives and those born of them, according to the counsel of my lord and those who fear the commandment of our God; let it be done according to the law.  
Arise, for this matter belongs to you; we will also be with you. Be of good courage and act.  
Then Ezra arose and made the chief priests, the Levites, and all Israel swear that they would act according to this word. And they swore.  
Ezra then rose from before the house of God and went into the chamber of Johanan, the son of Eliashib. When he arrived there, he ate no bread and drank no water, for he mourned because of the transgression of those who had been exiled.  
They made a proclamation throughout Judah and Jerusalem to all the children of the captivity, urging them to gather together in Jerusalem.  
And whoever did not come within three days, according to the counsel of the princes and elders, would have all his possessions forfeited and be separated from the congregation of those who had been exiled.  
Then all the men of Judah and Benjamin gathered together in Jerusalem within three days. It was the ninth month, on the twentieth day of the month, and all the people sat in the street of the house of God, trembling because of this matter and the heavy rain.  
Ezra the priest stood up and said to them, "You have transgressed and taken foreign wives, increasing the guilt of Israel."  
Now, therefore, confess to the LORD God of your fathers and do His will: separate yourselves from the people of the land and from the foreign wives.  
Then all the congregation answered with a loud voice, "As you have said, so must we do."  
But the people are many, and it is a time of heavy rain; we cannot stand outside, nor is this a task for one day or two, for we have many who have transgressed in this matter.  
Let our rulers of all the congregation stand, and let all those who have taken foreign wives in our cities come at appointed times, along with the elders of every city and their judges, until the fierce wrath of our God regarding this matter is turned away from us.  
Only Jonathan, the son of Asahel, and Jahaziah, the son of Tikvah, were assigned to this matter, and Meshullam and Shabbethai the Levite assisted them.  
The children of the captivity did so. Ezra the priest, along with certain chiefs of the fathers, after the house of their fathers, and all of them by name, were separated and sat down on the first day of the tenth month to examine the matter.  
They completed the examination of all the men who had taken foreign wives by the first day of the first month.  
Among the sons of the priests, those found to have taken foreign wives included the sons of Jeshua, the son of Jozadak, and his brothers: Maaseiah, Eliezer, Jarib, and Gedaliah.  
They pledged to put away their wives and, being guilty, offered a ram from the flock for their trespass.  
Among the sons of Immer were Hanani and Zebadiah.  
Among the sons of Harim were Maaseiah, Elijah, Shemaiah, Jehiel, and Uzziah.  
Among the sons of Pashur were Elioenai, Maaseiah, Ishmael, Nethaneel, Jozabad, and Elasah.  
Also, among the Levites were Jozabad, Shimei, Kelaiah (also known as Kelita), Pethahiah, Judah, and Eliezer.  
Among the singers was Eliashib; and among the porters were Shallum, Telem, and Uri.  
Moreover, from Israel, among the sons of Parosh were Ramiah, Jeziah, Malchiah, Miamin, Eleazar, Malchijah, and Benaiah.  
Among the sons of Elam were Mattaniah, Zechariah, Jehiel, Abdi, Jeremoth, and Eliah.  
Among the sons of Zattu were Elioenai, Eliashib, Mattaniah, Jeremoth, Zabad, and Aziza.  
Among the sons of Bebai were Jehohanan, Hananiah, Zabbai, and Athlai.  
Among the sons of Bani were Meshullam, Malluch, Adaiah, Jashub, Sheal, and Ramoth.  
Among the sons of Pahathmoab were Adna, Chelal, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattaniah, Bezaleel, Binnui, and Manasseh.  
Among the sons of Harim were Eliezer, Ishijah, Malchiah, Shemaiah, and Shimeon.  
Among the sons of Benjamin were Malluch and Shemariah.  
Among the sons of Hashum were Mattenai, Mattathah, Zabad, Eliphelet, Jeremai, Manasseh, and Shimei.  
Among the sons of Bani were Maadai, Amram, and Uel,  
Benaiah, Bedeiah, Chelluh,  
Vaniah, Meremoth, Eliashib,  
Mattaniah, Mattenai, and Jaasau,  
And Bani, Binnui, Shimei,  
And Shelemiah, Nathan, and Adaiah,  
Machnadebai, Shashai, Sharai,  
Azareel, Shelemiah, Shemariah,  
Shallum, Amariah, and Joseph.  
Among the sons of Nebo were Jeiel, Mattithiah, Zabad, Zebina, Jadau, Joel, and Benaiah.  
All these had taken foreign wives, and some of them had wives by whom they had children.