Comfort, comfort my people, says your God.
Speak tenderly to Jerusalem and proclaim to her that her warfare is over, that her sin is forgiven; for she has received from the LORD's hand double for all her sins.
A voice cries out in the wilderness, "Prepare the way of the LORD; make straight in the desert a highway for our God."
Every valley shall be lifted up, and every mountain and hill made low; the crooked shall be made straight, and the rough places smooth.
And the glory of the LORD shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together; for the mouth of the LORD has spoken.
The voice said, "Cry out." And he asked, "What shall I cry?" All flesh is like grass, and all its beauty is like the flower of the field.
The grass withers, the flower fades; when the breath of the LORD blows upon it; surely the people are grass.
The grass withers, the flower fades; but the word of our God stands forever.
O Zion, herald of good tidings, ascend to the high mountain; O Jerusalem, herald of good tidings, lift up your voice with strength; lift it up, do not be afraid; say to the cities of Judah, "Behold your God!"
Behold, the Lord GOD comes with might, and his arm rules for him; behold, his reward is with him, and his recompense before him.
He will tend his flock like a shepherd; he will gather the lambs in his arms, and carry them close to his heart; he will gently lead those that are with young.
Who has measured the waters in the hollow of his hand, or with the breadth of his hand marked off the heavens? Who has held the dust of the earth in a basket, or weighed the mountains on the scales and the hills in a balance?
Who has directed the Spirit of the LORD, or as his counselor has taught him?
With whom did he consult to enlighten him, and who taught him the right way? Who was it that taught him knowledge, or showed him the path of understanding?
Behold, the nations are like a drop from a bucket, and are counted as the small dust on the scales; behold, he takes up the isles like fine dust.
Lebanon is not sufficient for fuel, nor are its beasts enough for a burnt offering.
All nations before him are as nothing; they are regarded by him as less than nothing and worthless.
To whom then will you liken God? Or what likeness will you compare to him?
The craftsman casts an image, and the goldsmith overlays it with gold, and casts silver chains.
He who is too impoverished for such an offering chooses a tree that will not rot; he seeks for himself a skillful craftsman to prepare a carved image that will not move.
Have you not known? Have you not heard? Has it not been told to you from the beginning? Have you not understood from the foundations of the earth?
It is he who sits above the circle of the earth, and its inhabitants are like grasshoppers; who stretches out the heavens like a curtain, and spreads them out like a tent to dwell in.
He brings princes to nothing, and makes the rulers of the earth as emptiness.
Indeed, they will not be planted; indeed, they will not be sown; indeed, their stock will not take root in the earth; and he will also blow on them, and they will wither, and the whirlwind will take them away like stubble.
To whom then will you liken me, or shall I be equal? says the Holy One.
Lift up your eyes on high, and see who created these things, who brings out their host by number; he calls them all by name by the greatness of his might, and because he is strong in power; not one is missing.
Why do you say, O Jacob, and speak, O Israel, "My way is hidden from the LORD, and my just claim is passed over by my God?"
Have you not known? Have you not heard? The everlasting God, the LORD, the Creator of the ends of the earth, neither faints nor is weary; his understanding is unsearchable.
He gives power to the weak, and to those who have no might he increases strength.
Even the youths shall faint and be weary, and the young men shall utterly fall;
But those who wait on the LORD shall renew their strength; they shall mount up with wings like eagles; they shall run and not be weary; they shall walk and not faint.
