O Lord, you have searched me and known me.  
You know my sitting down and my rising up; you understand my thoughts from afar.  
You encompass my path and my lying down, and are familiar with all my ways.  
For there is not a word on my tongue, but behold, O Lord, you know it completely.  
You have beset me behind and before, and laid your hand upon me.  
Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; it is high, I cannot attain to it.  
Where can I go from your Spirit? Or where can I flee from your presence?  
If I ascend into heaven, you are there; if I make my bed in hell, behold, you are there.  
If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea,  
Even there your hand will lead me, and your right hand will hold me.  
If I say, "Surely the darkness will cover me," even the night will be light around me.  
Indeed, the darkness does not hide from you, but the night shines as the day; the darkness and the light are both alike to you.  
For you formed my inward parts; you covered me in my mother’s womb.  
I will praise you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made; marvelous are your works, and my soul knows it very well.  
My substance was not hidden from you when I was made in secret, and intricately woven in the lowest parts of the earth.  
Your eyes saw my substance, yet being unformed; and in your book, all my members were written, which in continuance were fashioned, when as yet there were none of them.  
How precious also are your thoughts toward me, O God! How great is the sum of them!  
If I should count them, they would be more in number than the sand; when I awake, I am still with you.  
Surely you will slay the wicked, O God; depart from me, therefore, you bloodthirsty men.  
For they speak against you wickedly, and your enemies take your name in vain.  
Do I not hate them, O Lord, who hate you? And am I not grieved with those who rise up against you?  
I hate them with perfect hatred; I count them my enemies.  
Search me, O God, and know my heart; test me and know my thoughts.  
And see if there is any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting.  