And the LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying to them,  
"Speak to the children of Israel, saying, 'These are the animals you may eat from all the animals on the earth.  
Whatever has a split hoof, is cloven-footed, and chews the cud among the animals, that you may eat.  
However, these you shall not eat from those that chew the cud or have split hooves: the camel, because it chews the cud but does not have a split hoof; it is unclean to you.  
And the coney, because it chews the cud but does not have a split hoof; it is unclean to you.  
And the hare, because it chews the cud but does not have a split hoof; it is unclean to you.  
And the pig, though it has a split hoof and is cloven-footed, yet it does not chew the cud; it is unclean to you.  
You shall not eat their flesh, and you shall not touch their carcasses; they are unclean to you.  
These you may eat from all that are in the waters: whatever has fins and scales in the waters, in the seas, and in the rivers, them you may eat.  
And all that do not have fins and scales in the seas and in the rivers, of all that move in the waters, and of any living thing that is in the waters, they shall be an abomination to you.  
They shall be an abomination to you; you shall not eat their flesh, but you shall regard their carcasses as an abomination.  
Whatever does not have fins or scales in the waters, that shall be an abomination to you.  
And these are the birds you shall regard as an abomination; they shall not be eaten, they are an abomination: the eagle, the ossifrage, and the osprey,  
And the vulture, and the kite after its kind;  
Every raven after its kind;  
And the owl, the night hawk, the cuckoo, and the hawk after its kind,  
And the little owl, the cormorant, and the great owl,  
And the swan, the pelican, and the gier eagle,  
And the stork, the heron after its kind, and the lapwing, and the bat.  
All birds that creep, going on all fours, shall be an abomination to you.  
Yet these you may eat of every flying insect that goes on all fours, which have legs above their feet to leap on the earth;  
Even these you may eat: the locust after its kind, the bald locust after its kind, the beetle after its kind, and the grasshopper after its kind.  
But all other flying insects, which have four feet, shall be an abomination to you.  
And for these you shall be unclean: whoever touches their carcass shall be unclean until evening.  
And whoever carries any part of their carcass shall wash his clothes and be unclean until evening.  
The carcasses of every animal that has a split hoof and is not cloven-footed or does not chew the cud are unclean to you; whoever touches them shall be unclean.  
And whatever goes on its paws, among all kinds of animals that go on all fours, those are unclean to you; whoever touches their carcass shall be unclean until evening.  
And he who carries their carcass shall wash his clothes and be unclean until evening; they are unclean to you.  
These also shall be unclean to you among the creeping things that creep on the earth: the weasel, the mouse, and the tortoise after its kind,  
And the ferret, the chameleon, the lizard, the snail, and the mole.  
These are unclean to you among all that creep: whoever touches them when they are dead shall be unclean until evening.  
And upon whatever any of them falls when they are dead, it shall be unclean; whether it is any vessel of wood, clothing, skin, or sack, whatever vessel it is, in which any work is done, it must be put into water, and it shall be unclean until evening; then it shall be cleansed.  
And every earthen vessel into which any of them falls, whatever is in it shall be unclean; and you shall break it.  
Of all food that may be eaten, that on which such water comes shall be unclean; and all drink that may be drunk in every such vessel shall be unclean.  
And everything upon which any part of their carcass falls shall be unclean; whether it is an oven or a stove for pots, they shall be broken down; for they are unclean and shall be unclean to you.  
Nevertheless, a fountain or a pit, where there is plenty of water, shall be clean; but that which touches their carcass shall be unclean.  
And if any part of their carcass falls upon any sowing seed that is to be sown, it shall be clean.  
But if any water is put on the seed, and any part of their carcass falls thereon, it shall be unclean to you.  
And if any animal, of which you may eat, dies; he who touches its carcass shall be unclean until evening.  
And he who eats of its carcass shall wash his clothes and be unclean until evening; he also who carries its carcass shall wash his clothes and be unclean until evening.  
And every creeping thing that creeps on the earth shall be an abomination; it shall not be eaten.  
Whatever goes on its belly, and whatever goes on all fours, or whatever has more feet among all creeping things that creep on the earth, you shall not eat; for they are an abomination.  
You shall not make yourselves abominable with any creeping thing that creeps, nor shall you make yourselves unclean with them, that you should be defiled by them.  
For I am the LORD your God: you shall therefore sanctify yourselves, and you shall be holy; for I am holy: neither shall you defile yourselves with any manner of creeping thing that creeps on the earth.  
For I am the LORD who brought you up out of the land of Egypt, to be your God: you shall therefore be holy, for I am holy.  
This is the law of the animals, and of the birds, and of every living creature that moves in the waters, and of every creature that creeps on the earth:  
To distinguish between the unclean and the clean, and between the animal that may be eaten and the animal that may not be eaten."