The sin of Judah is inscribed with an iron pen, and with the point of a diamond: it is etched upon the table of their hearts, and upon the horns of your altars.
While their children remember their altars and their groves by the green trees on the high hills.
O my mountain in the field, I will give your substance and all your treasures to the spoil, and your high places for sin, throughout all your borders.
And you, even you, shall cease from the heritage that I gave you; and I will make you serve your enemies in a land you do not know: for you have kindled a fire in my anger, which shall burn forever.
Thus says the LORD; Cursed is the man who trusts in man, and makes flesh his strength, and whose heart departs from the LORD.
For he shall be like a shrub in the desert, and shall not see when good comes; but shall dwell in the parched places of the wilderness, in a salt land that is not inhabited.
Blessed is the man who trusts in the LORD, and whose hope the LORD is.
For he shall be like a tree planted by the waters, that spreads out its roots by the river, and shall not see when heat comes, but its leaf shall be green; and shall not be anxious in the year of drought, nor shall cease from yielding fruit.
The heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked: who can understand it?
I the LORD search the heart, I test the mind, even to give every man according to his ways, and according to the fruit of his deeds.
As the partridge sits on eggs, and hatches them not; so he who gains riches, and not by right, shall leave them in the midst of his days, and at his end shall be a fool.
A glorious high throne from the beginning is the place of our sanctuary.
O LORD, the hope of Israel, all who forsake you shall be ashamed, and those who depart from me shall be written in the earth, because they have forsaken the LORD, the fountain of living waters.
Heal me, O LORD, and I shall be healed; save me, and I shall be saved: for you are my praise.
Behold, they say to me, Where is the word of the LORD? let it come now.
As for me, I have not hurried away from being a shepherd to follow you: nor have I desired the woeful day; you know: that which came out of my lips was right before you.
Do not be a terror to me: you are my hope in the day of evil.
Let those who persecute me be confounded, but let me not be confounded: let them be dismayed, but let me not be dismayed: bring upon them the day of evil, and destroy them with double destruction.
Thus said the LORD to me; Go and stand in the gate of the children of the people, by which the kings of Judah come in, and by which they go out, and in all the gates of Jerusalem;
And say to them, Hear the word of the LORD, you kings of Judah, and all Judah, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, who enter by these gates:
Thus says the LORD; Take heed to yourselves, and bear no burden on the sabbath day, nor bring it in by the gates of Jerusalem;
Neither carry forth a burden out of your houses on the sabbath day, nor do any work, but sanctify the sabbath day, as I commanded your fathers.
But they did not obey, nor did they incline their ear, but made their neck stiff, that they might not hear, nor receive instruction.
And it shall come to pass, if you diligently listen to me, says the LORD, to bring in no burden through the gates of this city on the sabbath day, but to sanctify the sabbath day, to do no work therein;
Then shall kings and princes enter through the gates of this city, sitting upon the throne of David, riding in chariots and on horses, they, and their princes, the men of Judah, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem: and this city shall remain forever.
And they shall come from the cities of Judah, and from the places around Jerusalem, and from the land of Benjamin, and from the plain, and from the mountains, and from the south, bringing burnt offerings, and sacrifices, and grain offerings, and incense, and bringing sacrifices of praise, to the house of the LORD.
But if you will not listen to me to sanctify the sabbath day, and not to bear a burden, even entering in at the gates of Jerusalem on the sabbath day; then I will kindle a fire in the gates thereof, and it shall devour the palaces of Jerusalem, and it shall not be quenched.
