Whosoever loves instruction loves knowledge; but he who hates reproof is foolish.  
A good man obtains favor from the LORD, but a man with wicked schemes will be condemned.  
A man will not be established by wickedness, but the root of the righteous will not be shaken.  
A virtuous woman is a crown to her husband, but one who brings shame is like rottenness in his bones.  
The thoughts of the righteous are just, but the plans of the wicked are deceitful.  
The words of the wicked lie in wait for blood, but the mouth of the upright will rescue them.  
The wicked are overthrown and are no more, but the house of the righteous will stand firm.  
A man is commended according to his wisdom, but one with a perverse heart will be despised.  
He who is despised and has a servant is better than he who honors himself but lacks bread.  
A righteous man cares for the life of his animal, but the tender mercies of the wicked are cruel.  
He who cultivates his land will be satisfied with bread, but he who follows worthless pursuits lacks understanding.  
The wicked desire the net of evil men, but the root of the righteous yields fruit.  
The wicked is ensnared by the transgression of his lips, but the just will escape trouble.  
A man will be satisfied with good by the fruit of his mouth, and the recompense of a man's hands will be rendered to him.  
The way of a fool seems right in his own eyes, but he who listens to counsel is wise.  
A fool's anger is quickly known, but a prudent man covers shame.  
He who speaks the truth shows forth righteousness, but a false witness spreads deceit.  
There are those who speak like the piercings of a sword, but the tongue of the wise brings healing.  
The lip of truth will be established forever, but a lying tongue lasts only for a moment.  
Deceit is in the heart of those who devise evil, but joy belongs to the counselors of peace.  
No evil will befall the just, but the wicked will be filled with trouble.  
Lying lips are an abomination to the LORD, but those who deal truthfully are His delight.  
A prudent man conceals knowledge, but the heart of fools proclaims foolishness.  
The hand of the diligent will rule, but the lazy will be put to forced labor.  
Heaviness in the heart of a man makes it stoop, but a good word makes it glad.  
The righteous is more excellent than his neighbor, but the way of the wicked leads them astray.  
The slothful man does not roast what he took in hunting, but the possessions of a diligent man are valuable.  
In the way of righteousness is life, and in its pathway, there is no death.