On that day, they read from the book of Moses in the presence of the people; and it was found written that the Ammonite and the Moabite should not enter the congregation of God forever.  
Because they did not meet the children of Israel with bread and water, but hired Balaam against them to curse them; however, our God turned the curse into a blessing.  
Now it came to pass that when they heard the law, they separated from Israel all the mixed multitude.  
Before this, Eliashib the priest, who oversaw the chamber of the house of our God, was allied with Tobiah.  
He had prepared for him a large chamber, where previously they had stored the meat offerings, the frankincense, the vessels, and the tithes of the corn, the new wine, and the oil, which were commanded to be given to the Levites, the singers, and the porters, as well as the offerings for the priests.  
But during all this time, I was not in Jerusalem; for in the thirty-second year of Artaxerxes, king of Babylon, I came to the king, and after some days, I obtained leave from the king.  
I then came to Jerusalem and learned about the evil that Eliashib had done for Tobiah by preparing a chamber in the courts of the house of God.  
This greatly distressed me; therefore, I threw out all the household items of Tobiah from the chamber.  
Then I commanded that they cleanse the chambers, and I brought back the vessels of the house of God, along with the meat offerings and the frankincense.  
I noticed that the portions for the Levites had not been given to them; for the Levites and the singers who performed the work had fled, each to his own field.  
Then I contended with the rulers and said, "Why is the house of God forsaken?" I gathered them together and set them in their places.  
Then all of Judah brought the tithe of the corn, the new wine, and the oil to the treasuries.  
I appointed treasurers over the treasuries: Shelemiah the priest, Zadok the scribe, and Pedaiah of the Levites; and next to them was Hanan, the son of Zaccur, the son of Mattaniah, for they were considered faithful, and their duty was to distribute to their brethren.  
Remember me, O my God, concerning this, and do not erase my good deeds that I have done for the house of my God and for its services.  
In those days, I saw Jews treading wine presses on the Sabbath, bringing in sheaves, and loading donkeys; as well as wine, grapes, figs, and all kinds of burdens, which they brought into Jerusalem on the Sabbath day. I testified against them on the day they sold provisions.  
There were also men of Tyre living there, who brought fish and all kinds of goods and sold them on the Sabbath to the children of Judah and in Jerusalem.  
Then I contended with the nobles of Judah and said to them, "What evil thing is this that you do, profaning the Sabbath day?  
Did not your fathers do this, and did not our God bring all this evil upon us and upon this city? Yet you bring more wrath upon Israel by profaning the Sabbath."  
And it came to pass that when the gates of Jerusalem began to be dark before the Sabbath, I commanded that the gates should be shut and ordered that they should not be opened until after the Sabbath. Some of my servants were stationed at the gates to ensure that no burden would be brought in on the Sabbath day.  
So the merchants and sellers of all kinds of goods camped outside Jerusalem once or twice.  
Then I testified against them and said to them, "Why do you camp around the wall? If you do so again, I will lay hands on you." From that time on, they did not come back on the Sabbath.  
I commanded the Levites to cleanse themselves and to come and guard the gates, to sanctify the Sabbath day. Remember me, O my God, concerning this also, and spare me according to the greatness of your mercy.  
In those days, I also saw Jews who had married women from Ashdod, Ammon, and Moab.  
Their children spoke half in the language of Ashdod and could not speak the Jews' language, but only according to the language of each people.  
I contended with them, cursed them, struck some of them, and pulled out their hair, and made them swear by God, saying, "You shall not give your daughters to their sons, nor take their daughters for your sons or for yourselves."  
Did not Solomon, king of Israel, sin by these things? Yet among many nations, there was no king like him, who was beloved by his God, and God made him king over all Israel; nevertheless, even he was led into sin by foreign women.  
Shall we then listen to you to do all this great evil, to transgress against our God by marrying foreign wives?  
One of the sons of Joiada, the son of Eliashib the high priest, was a son-in-law to Sanballat the Horonite; therefore, I drove him away from me.  
Remember them, O my God, because they have defiled the priesthood and the covenant of the priesthood and of the Levites.  
Thus, I cleansed them from all foreigners and appointed the duties of the priests and the Levites, each in his own work.  
And for the wood offering, at appointed times, and for the firstfruits. Remember me, O my God, for good.