And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to all the congregation of the children of Israel, and tell them, "You shall be holy, for I the LORD your God am holy."
You shall honor every man his mother and his father, and keep my sabbaths: I am the LORD your God.
Do not turn to idols, nor make molten gods for yourselves: I am the LORD your God.
If you offer a sacrifice of peace offerings to the LORD, you shall offer it willingly.
It shall be eaten the same day you offer it, and on the next day; if anything remains until the third day, it shall be burned in the fire.
If it is eaten at all on the third day, it is detestable; it shall not be accepted.
Therefore, everyone who eats it shall bear his iniquity, because he has profaned the holy thing of the LORD; that soul shall be cut off from among his people.
When you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not completely reap the corners of your field, nor shall you gather the gleanings of your harvest.
You shall not glean your vineyard, nor gather every grape of your vineyard; you shall leave them for the poor and the stranger: I am the LORD your God.
You shall not steal, nor deal falsely, nor lie to one another.
You shall not swear by my name falsely, nor shall you profane the name of your God: I am the LORD.
You shall not defraud your neighbor, nor rob him; the wages of a hired worker shall not remain with you all night until morning.
You shall not curse the deaf, nor put a stumbling block before the blind, but you shall fear your God: I am the LORD.
You shall do no injustice in judgment; you shall not show partiality to the poor, nor honor the rich; but in righteousness, you shall judge your neighbor.
You shall not go about as a talebearer among your people, nor shall you stand against the blood of your neighbor; I am the LORD.
You shall not hate your brother in your heart; you shall surely rebuke your neighbor, and not bear sin because of him.
You shall not take vengeance, nor bear any grudge against the children of your people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself: I am the LORD.
You shall keep my statutes. You shall not let your cattle breed with a diverse kind; you shall not sow your field with mixed seed; nor shall a garment made of linen and wool come upon you.
Whoever lies carnally with a woman who is a bondmaid, betrothed to a husband, and not at all redeemed, nor given her freedom; she shall be scourged; they shall not be put to death, because she was not free.
He shall bring his trespass offering to the LORD, to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, even a ram for a trespass offering.
The priest shall make atonement for him with the ram of the trespass offering before the LORD for his sin which he has committed; and the sin he has committed shall be forgiven him.
When you come into the land and have planted all kinds of trees for food, you shall count the fruit as uncircumcised; for three years it shall be uncircumcised to you; it shall not be eaten.
But in the fourth year, all the fruit shall be holy to praise the LORD.
In the fifth year, you may eat of the fruit, that it may yield to you its increase: I am the LORD your God.
You shall not eat anything with the blood; nor shall you practice divination or observe times.
You shall not shave the corners of your heads, nor mar the corners of your beard.
You shall not make any cuttings in your flesh for the dead, nor print any marks upon you: I am the LORD.
Do not prostitute your daughter, to cause her to be a whore; lest the land fall to whoredom, and the land become full of wickedness.
You shall keep my sabbaths, and reverence my sanctuary: I am the LORD.
Do not turn to those who have familiar spirits, nor seek after wizards, to be defiled by them: I am the LORD your God.
You shall rise up before the gray head and honor the face of the old man, and fear your God: I am the LORD.
If a stranger dwells with you in your land, you shall not mistreat him.
The stranger who dwells among you shall be to you as one born among you, and you shall love him as yourself; for you were strangers in the land of Egypt: I am the LORD your God.
You shall do no injustice in judgment, in measurement, in weight, or in measure.
You shall have just balances, just weights, a just ephah, and a just hin: I am the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt.
Therefore, you shall observe all my statutes and all my judgments, and do them: I am the LORD.
