You shall love the LORD your God, and keep His charge, His statutes, His judgments, and His commandments always.
And know this day: I do not speak to your children who have not known, nor seen the chastisement of the LORD your God, His greatness, His mighty hand, and His outstretched arm,
And His miracles, and His acts, which He performed in the midst of Egypt against Pharaoh, the king of Egypt, and all his land;
And what He did to the army of Egypt, to their horses, and to their chariots; how He caused the waters of the Red Sea to overflow them as they pursued you, and how the LORD has destroyed them to this day;
And what He did to you in the wilderness, until you came to this place;
And what He did to Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab, the son of Reuben: how the earth opened its mouth and swallowed them, their households, their tents, and all their possessions, in the midst of all Israel;
But your eyes have seen all the great acts of the LORD that He has done.
Therefore, you shall keep all the commandments that I command you this day, so that you may be strong and go in and possess the land to which you are going;
And that you may prolong your days in the land which the LORD swore to your fathers to give them and their descendants, a land flowing with milk and honey.
For the land to which you are going to possess is not like the land of Egypt, from which you came, where you sowed your seed and watered it with your foot, like a garden of herbs;
But the land to which you go to possess is a land of hills and valleys, which drinks water from the rain of heaven;
A land which the LORD your God cares for: the eyes of the LORD your God are always upon it, from the beginning of the year to the end of the year.
And it shall come to pass, if you diligently heed my commandments which I command you this day, to love the LORD your God, and to serve Him with all your heart and with all your soul,
That I will give you the rain for your land in its season, the first rain and the latter rain, so that you may gather in your grain, your new wine, and your oil.
And I will send grass in your fields for your cattle, that you may eat and be full.
Take heed to yourselves, lest your heart be deceived, and you turn aside and serve other gods and worship them;
And then the LORD's anger be aroused against you, and He shut up the heavens so that there be no rain, and the land yield no produce; and lest you perish quickly from the good land which the LORD is giving you.
Therefore, you shall lay up these words of mine in your heart and in your soul, and bind them as a sign on your hand, that they may be as frontlets between your eyes.
And you shall teach them to your children, speaking of them when you sit in your house, when you walk by the way, when you lie down, and when you rise up.
And you shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates,
That your days may be multiplied, and the days of your children, in the land which the LORD swore to your fathers to give them, as the days of heaven upon the earth.
For if you diligently keep all these commandments which I command you, to do them, to love the LORD your God, to walk in all His ways, and to hold fast to Him;
Then the LORD will drive out all these nations from before you, and you shall possess nations greater and mightier than yourselves.
Every place on which the sole of your foot treads shall be yours: from the wilderness and Lebanon, from the river, the river Euphrates, even to the western sea shall your territory extend.
No man shall be able to stand before you: for the LORD your God will put the fear of you and the dread of you upon all the land that you tread upon, as He has said to you.
Behold, I set before you this day a blessing and a curse;
A blessing, if you obey the commandments of the LORD your God, which I command you this day;
And a curse, if you do not obey the commandments of the LORD your God, but turn aside from the way which I command you this day, to go after other gods which you have not known.
And it shall come to pass, when the LORD your God has brought you into the land which you go to possess, that you shall put the blessing on Mount Gerizim, and the curse on Mount Ebal.
Are they not across the Jordan, toward the west, in the land of the Canaanites, who dwell in the lowland opposite Gilgal, beside the plains of Moreh?
For you shall cross over the Jordan to go in to possess the land which the LORD your God is giving you, and you shall possess it and dwell in it.
And you shall be careful to observe all the statutes and judgments which I set before you this day.
