Behold, I will send my messenger, and he shall prepare the way before me; and the LORD, whom you seek, shall suddenly come to his temple, even the messenger of the covenant, in whom you take delight: behold, he shall come, says the LORD of hosts.  
But who can endure the day of his coming? And who shall stand when he appears? For he is like a refiner's fire and like fullers' soap.  
And he shall sit as a refiner and purifier of silver; he shall purify the sons of Levi and refine them like gold and silver, so that they may offer to the LORD an offering in righteousness.  
Then the offerings of Judah and Jerusalem will be pleasing to the LORD, as in the days of old and in former years.  
And I will draw near to you for judgment; I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers, against the adulterers, against false swearers, and against those who oppress the hired worker in his wages, the widow, and the fatherless, and who turn aside the stranger from his right, and do not fear me, says the LORD of hosts.  
For I am the LORD; I do not change; therefore you, sons of Jacob, are not consumed.  
From the days of your ancestors, you have turned away from my ordinances and have not kept them. Return to me, and I will return to you, says the LORD of hosts. But you say, "How shall we return?"  
Will a man rob God? Yet you have robbed me. But you say, "How have we robbed you?" In tithes and offerings.  
You are under a curse, for you have robbed me, even this whole nation.  
Bring all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be food in my house, and test me now in this, says the LORD of hosts, if I will not open for you the windows of heaven and pour out a blessing until there is no more need.  
And I will rebuke the devourer for your sakes, and he shall not destroy the fruits of your ground; neither shall your vine cast her fruit before the time in the field, says the LORD of hosts.  
And all nations will call you blessed, for you will be a delightful land, says the LORD of hosts.  
Your words have been harsh against me, says the LORD. Yet you say, "What have we spoken against you?"  
You have said, "It is futile to serve God; what profit is it that we have kept his ordinance and that we have walked mournfully before the LORD of hosts?"  
And now we call the arrogant blessed; indeed, those who do wickedness are built up; indeed, those who test God escape.  
Then those who feared the LORD spoke often to one another; and the LORD listened and heard it, and a book of remembrance was written before him for those who feared the LORD and thought upon his name.  
And they shall be mine, says the LORD of hosts, on the day when I make up my treasured possession; and I will spare them, as a man spares his own son who serves him.  
Then you shall return and discern between the righteous and the wicked, between him who serves God and him who does not serve him.