You shall not sacrifice to the LORD your God any bull or sheep that has a blemish or any defect, for that is an abomination to the LORD your God.  
If there is found among you, within any of your towns that the LORD your God is giving you, a man or woman who has done evil in the sight of the LORD your God by violating His covenant,  
and has gone and served other gods, worshipping them, whether the sun, moon, or any of the host of heaven, which I have not commanded,  
and it is reported to you, and you have heard of it, and have investigated thoroughly, and behold, it is true and confirmed that such an abomination has been committed in Israel:  
then you shall bring that man or woman who has committed that wicked act to your gates, that man or woman, and you shall stone them to death.  
At the testimony of two or three witnesses, the one deserving of death shall be put to death; but at the testimony of one witness, he shall not be put to death.  
The hands of the witnesses shall be the first upon him to put him to death, and afterward, the hands of all the people. So you shall purge the evil from among you.  
If a matter arises that is too difficult for you to judge, between blood and blood, between plea and plea, and between stroke and stroke, being matters of controversy within your gates, then you shall arise and go up to the place that the LORD your God will choose;  
and you shall go to the priests, the Levites, and to the judge who is in office in those days, and inquire; and they shall declare to you the sentence of judgment.  
You shall do according to the sentence they declare to you from that place which the LORD will choose; and you shall be careful to do according to all that they instruct you.  
According to the law they teach you, and according to the judgment they tell you, you shall do; you shall not turn aside from the sentence they declare to you, to the right or to the left.  
And the man who acts presumptuously and does not listen to the priest who stands to minister there before the LORD your God, or to the judge, that man shall die; and you shall purge the evil from Israel.  
And all the people shall hear and be afraid, and will no longer act presumptuously.  
When you come to the land that the LORD your God is giving you, and possess it and dwell in it, and say, "I will set a king over me, like all the nations that are around me,"  
you shall surely set as king over you the one whom the LORD your God chooses; one from among your own brothers you shall set as king over you; you may not put a foreigner over you, who is not your brother.  
But he must not acquire many horses for himself, nor make the people return to Egypt to acquire more horses, since the LORD has said to you, "You shall never return that way again."  
Neither shall he acquire many wives for himself, lest his heart turn away; nor shall he greatly increase silver and gold for himself.  
And it shall be, when he sits on the throne of his kingdom, that he shall write for himself a copy of this law in a book from what is before the priests, the Levites.  
And it shall be with him, and he shall read it all the days of his life, that he may learn to fear the LORD his God, to keep all the words of this law and these statutes, and to do them:  
that his heart may not be lifted above his brothers, and that he may not turn aside from the commandment, to the right or to the left, so that he may prolong his days in his kingdom, he and his children, in the midst of Israel.