Now it came to pass, when the wall was completed, and I had installed the doors, and appointed the porters, singers, and Levites,  
That I entrusted my brother Hanani, and Hananiah, the ruler of the palace, with the oversight of Jerusalem, for he was a faithful man who feared God more than many.  
And I instructed them, "Do not let the gates of Jerusalem be opened until the sun is hot; while they stand guard, let them shut the doors and bar them. Appoint watches from among the inhabitants of Jerusalem, each in their watch, and each opposite their own house."  
Now the city was large and great, but the population was few, and the houses had not yet been built.  
And my God put it in my heart to gather the nobles, rulers, and people so that they might be counted by genealogy. I found a register of those who had come up first and found it written therein,  
These are the children of the province who returned from captivity, those who had been carried away by Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, and returned to Jerusalem and Judah, each to their own city;  
Who came with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Azariah, Raamiah, Nahamani, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispereth, Bigvai, Nehum, and Baanah. The number of the men of the people of Israel was as follows:  
The children of Parosh, two thousand one hundred seventy-two.  
The children of Shephatiah, three hundred seventy-two.  
The children of Arah, six hundred fifty-two.  
The children of Pahathmoab, of the children of Jeshua and Joab, two thousand eight hundred eighteen.  
The children of Elam, one thousand two hundred fifty-four.  
The children of Zattu, eight hundred forty-five.  
The children of Zaccai, seven hundred sixty-three.  
The children of Binnui, six hundred forty-eight.  
The children of Bebai, six hundred twenty-eight.  
The children of Azgad, two thousand three hundred twenty-two.  
The children of Adonikam, six hundred sixty-seven.  
The children of Bigvai, two thousand sixty-seven.  
The children of Adin, six hundred fifty-five.  
The children of Ater of Hezekiah, ninety-eight.  
The children of Hashum, three hundred twenty-eight.  
The children of Bezai, three hundred twenty-four.  
The children of Hariph, one hundred twelve.  
The children of Gibeon, ninety-five.  
The men of Bethlehem and Netophah, one hundred eighty-eight.  
The men of Anathoth, one hundred twenty-eight.  
The men of Bethazmaveth, forty-two.  
The men of Kirjathjearim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, seven hundred forty-three.  
The men of Ramah and Gaba, six hundred twenty-one.  
The men of Michmas, one hundred twenty-two.  
The men of Bethel and Ai, one hundred twenty-three.  
The men of the other Nebo, fifty-two.  
The children of the other Elam, one thousand two hundred fifty-four.  
The children of Harim, three hundred twenty.  
The children of Jericho, three hundred forty-five.  
The children of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred twenty-one.  
The children of Senaah, three thousand nine hundred thirty.  
The priests: the children of Jedaiah, of the house of Jeshua, nine hundred seventy-three.  
The children of Immer, one thousand fifty-two.  
The children of Pashur, one thousand two hundred forty-seven.  
The children of Harim, one thousand seventeen.  
The Levites: the children of Jeshua, of Kadmiel, and of the children of Hodevah, seventy-four.  
The singers: the children of Asaph, one hundred forty-eight.  
The porters: the children of Shallum, the children of Ater, the children of Talmon, the children of Akkub, the children of Hatita, and the children of Shobai, one hundred thirty-eight.  
The Nethinims: the children of Ziha, the children of Hashupha, and the children of Tabbaoth,  
The children of Keros, the children of Sia, and the children of Padon,  
The children of Lebana, the children of Hagaba, and the children of Shalmai,  
The children of Hanan, the children of Giddel, and the children of Gahar,  
The children of Reaiah, the children of Rezin, and the children of Nekoda,  
The children of Gazzam, the children of Uzza, and the children of Phaseah,  
The children of Besai, the children of Meunim, and the children of Nephishesim,  
The children of Bakbuk, the children of Hakupha, and the children of Harhur,  
The children of Bazlith, the children of Mehida, and the children of Harsha,  
The children of Barkos, the children of Sisera, and the children of Tamah,  
The children of Neziah, and the children of Hatipha.  
The children of Solomon's servants: the children of Sotai, the children of Sophereth, and the children of Perida,  
The children of Jaala, the children of Darkon, and the children of Giddel,  
The children of Shephatiah, the children of Hattil, the children of Pochereth of Zebaim, and the children of Amon.  
All the Nethinims and the children of Solomon's servants totaled three hundred ninety-two.  
And these were those who also came up from Telmelah, Telharesha, Cherub, Addon, and Immer: but they could not show their father's house, nor their lineage, whether they were of Israel.  
The children of Delaiah, the children of Tobiah, and the children of Nekoda, six hundred forty-two.  
And of the priests: the children of Habaiah, the children of Koz, and the children of Barzillai, who took one of the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite as his wife, and was called by their name.  
These sought their register among those who were counted by genealogy, but it was not found; therefore, they were considered polluted and excluded from the priesthood.  
And the Tirshatha said to them that they should not eat of the most holy things until a priest stood up with Urim and Thummim.  
The whole congregation together numbered forty-two thousand three hundred sixty,  
Besides their male and female servants, of whom there were seven thousand three hundred thirty-seven; and they had two hundred forty-five singing men and singing women.  
Their horses numbered seven hundred thirty-six; their mules, two hundred forty-five;  
Their camels, four hundred thirty-five; and their donkeys, six thousand seven hundred twenty.  
And some of the chief of the fathers contributed to the work. The Tirshatha gave to the treasury one thousand drams of gold, fifty basins, and five hundred thirty priestly garments.  
And some of the chief of the fathers gave to the treasury of the work twenty thousand drams of gold and two thousand two hundred pounds of silver.  
And what the rest of the people gave was twenty thousand drams of gold, two thousand pounds of silver, and sixty-seven priestly garments.  
So the priests, Levites, porters, singers, and some of the people, along with the Nethinims, and all Israel, dwelt in their cities; and when the seventh month arrived, the children of Israel were in their cities.