And Hannah prayed, saying, "My heart rejoices in the LORD; my strength is exalted in the LORD. My mouth is enlarged over my enemies, for I rejoice in Your salvation."  
There is none as holy as the LORD; there is none beside You, nor is there any rock like our God.  
Do not speak so arrogantly; let no pride come from your mouth, for the LORD is a God of knowledge, and by Him actions are weighed.  
The bows of the mighty are broken, while those who stumbled are girded with strength.  
Those who were full have hired themselves out for bread, and the hungry have ceased to hunger; the barren has borne seven, while she who had many children has become feeble.  
The LORD kills and makes alive; He brings down to the grave and raises up.  
The LORD makes poor and makes rich; He brings low and lifts up.  
He raises the poor from the dust and lifts the beggar from the ash heap, to set them among princes and to make them inherit a throne of glory; for the pillars of the earth are the LORD's, and He has set the world upon them.  
He will guard the feet of His saints, and the wicked shall be silent in darkness; for by strength no man shall prevail.  
The adversaries of the LORD shall be shattered; He will thunder against them from heaven. The LORD will judge the ends of the earth; He will give strength to His king and exalt the horn of His anointed.  
And Elkanah went to Ramah to his house, and the child ministered to the LORD before Eli the priest.  
Now the sons of Eli were worthless men; they did not know the LORD.  
And the priest's custom with the people was that when any man offered a sacrifice, the priest's servant would come while the meat was boiling, with a three-pronged fork in his hand.  
He would thrust it into the pot, kettle, or cauldron; whatever the fork brought up, the priest would take for himself. This is what they did in Shiloh to all the Israelites who came there.  
Also, before they burned the fat, the priest's servant would come and say to the man who was sacrificing, "Give meat for roasting to the priest, for he will not accept boiled meat from you, but only raw."  
If any man said to him, "Let the fat be burned first, and then take as much as you desire," he would answer, "No, you must give it to me now; if not, I will take it by force."  
Therefore, the sin of the young men was very great before the LORD, for men despised the offering of the LORD.  
But Samuel ministered before the LORD, being a child, wearing a linen ephod.  
Moreover, his mother made him a little coat and brought it to him year by year when she came up with her husband to offer the yearly sacrifice.  
And Eli blessed Elkanah and his wife, saying, "May the LORD give you children from this woman for the loan she has given to the LORD." Then they went to their home.  
And the LORD visited Hannah, so that she conceived and bore three sons and two daughters. Meanwhile, the child Samuel grew before the LORD.  
Now Eli was very old, and he heard all that his sons were doing to all Israel, and how they lay with the women who served at the entrance of the tabernacle of meeting.  
And he said to them, "Why do you do such things? For I hear of your evil deeds from all these people."  
"No, my sons; it is not a good report that I hear; you make the LORD's people transgress."  
If one man sins against another, the judge shall judge him; but if a man sins against the LORD, who will plead for him? Nevertheless, they did not heed the voice of their father, because the LORD desired to kill them.  
And the child Samuel grew in stature and in favor with the LORD and with men.  
Then a man of God came to Eli and said to him, "Thus says the LORD: Did I not clearly reveal Myself to the house of your father when they were in Egypt, in Pharaoh's house?  
Did I not choose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be My priest, to offer upon My altar, to burn incense, and to wear an ephod before Me? Did I not give to the house of your father all the offerings of the children of Israel made by fire?  
Why then do you kick at My sacrifice and My offering, which I have commanded in My dwelling place, and honor your sons more than Me, to make yourselves fat with the best of all the offerings of Israel, My people?  
Therefore, the LORD God of Israel says: 'I said indeed that your house and the house of your father would walk before Me forever. But now the LORD says: "Far be it from Me; for those who honor Me I will honor, and those who despise Me shall be lightly esteemed."  
Behold, the days are coming that I will cut off your arm and the arm of your father's house, so that there will not be an old man in your house.  
And you will see an enemy in My dwelling place, in all the good which God gives Israel, and there will not be an old man in your house forever.  
And the man of yours whom I do not cut off from My altar shall be to consume your eyes and grieve your heart, and all the descendants of your house shall die in the flower of their age.  
And this shall be a sign to you that will come upon your two sons, on Hophni and Phinehas; in one day they shall die, both of them.  
And I will raise up for Myself a faithful priest who shall do according to what is in My heart and in My mind. I will build him a sure house, and he shall walk before My anointed forever.  
And it shall come to pass that everyone who is left in your house shall come and bow down to him for a piece of silver and a morsel of bread, and shall say, "Please put me in one of the priest's offices, that I may eat a piece of bread."