Woe to those who are complacent in Zion and trust in the stronghold of Samaria, which is regarded as the foremost of the nations, to whom the house of Israel has come!
Pass through Calneh and observe; then proceed to the great city of Hamath; afterward, descend to Gath of the Philistines: are they better than these kingdoms? Or is their territory larger than yours?
You who distance yourselves from the day of disaster and bring near the seat of violence;
Who lie on beds of ivory, stretch out on your couches, feast on the lambs from the flock, and the calves from the pen;
Who sing to the sound of the harp and create for yourselves musical instruments, like David;
Who drink wine from bowls and anoint yourselves with the finest oils; yet you do not grieve for the suffering of Joseph.
Therefore, you shall be among the first to go into exile, and the revelry of those who indulge shall be taken away.
The Lord GOD has sworn by Himself, declares the LORD, the God of hosts: I despise the pride of Jacob and hate his palaces; therefore, I will deliver up the city and all that is in it.
And it shall come to pass that if ten men remain in one house, they shall die.
A man's uncle will take him up, along with the one who burns him, to remove the bones from the house, and he will ask those by the sides of the house, "Is there anyone else with you?" and they will answer, "No." Then he will say, "Be silent, for we must not mention the name of the LORD."
For behold, the LORD commands, and He will strike the great house with breaches and the small house with clefts.
Do horses run on rocks? Does one plow there with oxen? For you have turned justice into bitterness and the fruit of righteousness into poison.
You who rejoice in trivial matters, who say, "Have we not gained power by our own strength?"
But behold, I will raise up a nation against you, O house of Israel, declares the LORD, the God of hosts; and they shall oppress you from the entrance of Hamath to the river of the wilderness.
