Now, there were in the church at Antioch certain prophets and teachers: Barnabas, Simeon called Niger, Lucius of Cyrene, Manaen, who had been brought up with Herod the tetrarch, and Saul.  
As they ministered to the Lord and fasted, the Holy Spirit said, "Separate for me Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them."  
After they had fasted and prayed, they laid their hands on them and sent them away.  
So, being sent forth by the Holy Spirit, they departed to Seleucia, and from there they sailed to Cyprus.  
When they arrived at Salamis, they preached the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews, and they also had John as their assistant.  
After they had traveled through the island to Paphos, they encountered a certain sorcerer, a false prophet, a Jew named Barjesus.  
He was with the deputy of the country, Sergius Paulus, a prudent man, who called for Barnabas and Saul and desired to hear the word of God.  
But Elymas the sorcerer (for that is his name by interpretation) opposed them, seeking to turn the deputy away from the faith.  
Then Saul, who is also called Paul, filled with the Holy Spirit, fixed his gaze on him.  
He said, "O full of all deceit and all mischief, you child of the devil, you enemy of all righteousness, will you not cease to pervert the straight ways of the Lord?"  
And now, behold, the hand of the Lord is upon you, and you shall be blind, unable to see the sun for a time." Immediately, a mist and darkness fell upon him, and he went about seeking someone to lead him by the hand.  
Then the deputy, when he saw what had happened, believed, being astonished at the teaching of the Lord.  
Now, when Paul and his companions set sail from Paphos, they came to Perga in Pamphylia, and John departed from them and returned to Jerusalem.  
But when they departed from Perga, they arrived at Antioch in Pisidia, and went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day and sat down.  
After the reading of the Law and the Prophets, the rulers of the synagogue sent to them, saying, "Men and brethren, if you have any word of exhortation for the people, say on."  
Then Paul stood up, and motioning with his hand said, "Men of Israel, and you who fear God, listen.  
The God of this people Israel chose our fathers and exalted the people when they dwelt as strangers in the land of Egypt, and with a high arm brought them out of it.  
For about forty years, He put up with their conduct in the wilderness.  
And when He had destroyed seven nations in the land of Canaan, He distributed their land to them by lot.  
Afterward, He gave them judges for about four hundred and fifty years, until Samuel the prophet.  
Then they asked for a king, and God gave them Saul the son of Kish, a man of the tribe of Benjamin, for forty years.  
After removing him, He raised up David to be their king, to whom He also gave testimony, saying, "I have found David the son of Jesse, a man after my own heart, who will do all my will."  
From this man's seed, God has raised up for Israel a Savior, Jesus, according to His promise.  
Before His coming, John had preached a baptism of repentance to all the people of Israel.  
As John was completing his course, he said, "Whom do you think I am? I am not he. But behold, there comes one after me, the sandals of whose feet I am not worthy to untie."  
Men and brethren, children of the stock of Abraham, and whoever among you fears God, to you the word of this salvation has been sent.  
For those who dwell in Jerusalem, and their rulers, because they did not know Him, nor the voices of the prophets which are read every Sabbath, have fulfilled them by condemning Him.  
Though they found no cause for death in Him, they asked Pilate that He should be put to death.  
When they had fulfilled all that was written concerning Him, they took Him down from the tree and laid Him in a tomb.  
But God raised Him from the dead.  
He was seen for many days by those who came up with Him from Galilee to Jerusalem, who are His witnesses to the people.  
And we declare to you glad tidings: that promise which was made to the fathers,  
God has fulfilled this for us their children, in that He has raised up Jesus again; as it is also written in the second psalm, "You are my Son, today I have begotten you."  
As concerning that He raised Him up from the dead, no more to return to corruption, He spoke in this way: "I will give you the sure mercies of David."  
Therefore, He also says in another psalm, "You will not allow your Holy One to see corruption."  
For David, after he had served his own generation by the will of God, fell asleep, was buried with his fathers, and saw corruption.  
But He whom God raised up saw no corruption.  
Be it known to you therefore, men and brethren, that through this man is preached to you the forgiveness of sins.  
And by Him, everyone who believes is justified from all things from which you could not be justified by the law of Moses.  
Beware therefore, lest what has been spoken in the prophets come upon you:  
"Behold, you despisers, marvel and perish! For I work a work in your days, a work which you will by no means believe, though one were to declare it to you."  
When the Jews went out of the synagogue, the Gentiles begged that these words might be preached to them the next Sabbath.  
Now, when the congregation had broken up, many of the Jews and devout proselytes followed Paul and Barnabas, who, speaking to them, persuaded them to continue in the grace of God.  
On the next Sabbath, almost the whole city came together to hear the word of God.  
But when the Jews saw the multitudes, they were filled with envy and spoke against those things which were spoken by Paul, contradicting and blaspheming.  
Then Paul and Barnabas grew bold and said, "It was necessary that the word of God should be spoken to you first; but since you reject it and judge yourselves unworthy of everlasting life, behold, we turn to the Gentiles.  
For so the Lord has commanded us, saying, 'I have set you as a light to the Gentiles, that you should be for salvation to the ends of the earth.'"  
When the Gentiles heard this, they were glad and glorified the word of the Lord; and as many as had been appointed to eternal life believed.  
And the word of the Lord was spread throughout all the region.  
But the Jews stirred up the devout and honorable women and the chief men of the city, and raised up persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and expelled them from their region.  
But they shook off the dust from their feet against them and came to Iconium.  
And the disciples were filled with joy and with the Holy Spirit.