And after six days, Jesus took Peter, James, and John, his brother, and brought them up to a high mountain apart.
And he was transfigured before them; his face shone like the sun, and his clothes were as white as the light.
And behold, there appeared to them Moses and Elijah, talking with him.
Then Peter answered and said to Jesus, "Lord, it is good for us to be here; if you wish, let us make three tabernacles here: one for you, one for Moses, and one for Elijah."
While he was still speaking, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them, and a voice came out of the cloud, saying, "This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased; hear him."
And when the disciples heard it, they fell on their faces and were greatly afraid.
But Jesus came and touched them, saying, "Arise, and do not be afraid."
And when they lifted up their eyes, they saw no one except Jesus only.
As they came down from the mountain, Jesus charged them, saying, "Tell the vision to no one until the Son of Man is risen from the dead."
And his disciples asked him, "Why then do the scribes say that Elijah must come first?"
Jesus answered and said to them, "Elijah truly will come first and restore all things.
But I say to you that Elijah has already come, and they did not know him but did to him whatever they wished. Likewise, the Son of Man will suffer at their hands."
Then the disciples understood that he spoke to them about John the Baptist.
And when they came to the multitude, a certain man came to him, kneeling down and saying,
"Lord, have mercy on my son, for he is epileptic and suffers severely; for he often falls into the fire and often into the water.
And I brought him to your disciples, but they could not cure him."
Then Jesus answered and said, "O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I bear with you? Bring him here to me."
And Jesus rebuked the demon, and it came out of him, and the child was cured from that very hour.
Then the disciples came to Jesus privately and said, "Why could we not cast it out?"
And Jesus said to them, "Because of your unbelief; for assuredly, I say to you, if you have faith as a mustard seed, you will say to this mountain, 'Move from here to there,' and it will move; and nothing will be impossible for you.
However, this kind does not go out except by prayer and fasting."
While they stayed in Galilee, Jesus said to them, "The Son of Man is about to be betrayed into the hands of men,
and they will kill him, and the third day he will be raised up." And they were exceedingly sorrowful.
When they had come to Capernaum, those who received the temple tax came to Peter and said, "Does your teacher not pay the temple tax?"
He said, "Yes." And when he had come into the house, Jesus anticipated him, saying, "What do you think, Simon? From whom do the kings of the earth take customs or taxes? From their own sons or from strangers?"
Peter said to him, "From strangers." Jesus said to him, "Then the sons are free.
Nevertheless, lest we offend them, go to the sea, cast in a hook, and take the fish that comes up first; and when you have opened its mouth, you will find a coin. Take that and give it to them for me and you."
