Blessed are the pure in heart, who walk in the law of the LORD.
Blessed are those who keep his testimonies and seek him with their whole heart.
They also commit no sin; they walk in his ways.
You have commanded us to keep your precepts diligently.
Oh, that my ways were directed to keep your statutes!
Then I will not be ashamed when I consider all your commandments.
I will praise you with sincerity of heart when I learn your righteous judgments.
I will keep your statutes; do not utterly forsake me.
How can a young man cleanse his way? By taking heed according to your word.
With my whole heart I have sought you; do not let me wander from your commandments.
Your word I have hidden in my heart, that I might not sin against you.
Blessed are you, O LORD; teach me your statutes.
With my lips I have declared all the judgments of your mouth.
I have rejoiced in the way of your testimonies as much as in all riches.
I will meditate on your precepts and consider your ways.
I will delight in your statutes; I will not forget your word.
Deal generously with your servant, that I may live and keep your word.
Open my eyes that I may behold wondrous things from your law.
I am a stranger on the earth; do not hide your commandments from me.
My soul breaks with longing for your judgments at all times.
You have rebuked the proud who are accursed, who stray from your commandments.
Remove from me reproach and contempt, for I have kept your testimonies.
Princes also sit and speak against me, but your servant meditates on your statutes.
Your testimonies are my delight and my counselors.
My soul clings to the dust; revive me according to your word.
I have declared my ways, and you answered me; teach me your statutes.
Make me understand the way of your precepts; then I will talk of your wondrous works.
My soul melts from heaviness; strengthen me according to your word.
Remove from me the way of lying, and grant me your law graciously.
I have chosen the way of truth; your judgments I have laid before me.
I cling to your testimonies; O LORD, do not put me to shame.
I will run the way of your commandments when you enlarge my heart.
Teach me, O LORD, the way of your statutes, and I will keep it to the end.
Give me understanding, and I will keep your law; yes, I will observe it with my whole heart.
Make me walk in the path of your commandments, for I delight in it.
Incline my heart to your testimonies, and not to covetousness.
Turn away my eyes from looking at worthless things, and revive me in your way.
Establish your word to your servant, who is devoted to your fear.
Turn away my reproach that I dread, for your judgments are good.
Behold, I long for your precepts; revive me in your righteousness.
Let your mercies come also to me, O LORD, your salvation according to your word.
So shall I have an answer for him who reproaches me, for I trust in your word.
And do not take the word of truth utterly out of my mouth, for I have hoped in your judgments.
So shall I keep your law continually, forever and ever.
And I will walk at liberty, for I seek your precepts.
I will speak of your testimonies also before kings and will not be ashamed.
And I will delight in your commandments, which I love.
My hands I will lift up to your commandments, which I love; and I will meditate on your statutes.
Remember the word to your servant, upon which you have caused me to hope.
This is my comfort in my affliction, for your word has revived me.
The proud have mocked me greatly, yet I have not declined from your law.
I remembered your judgments of old, O LORD, and have comforted myself.
Horror has taken hold of me because of the wicked who forsake your law.
Your statutes have been my songs in the house of my pilgrimage.
I have remembered your name, O LORD, in the night, and have kept your law.
This I had because I kept your precepts.
You are my portion, O LORD; I have said that I would keep your words.
I have sought your favor with my whole heart; be merciful to me according to your word.
I thought about my ways and turned my feet to your testimonies.
I made haste and did not delay to keep your commandments.
The cords of the wicked have robbed me, but I have not forgotten your law.
At midnight I will rise to give thanks to you because of your righteous judgments.
I am a companion of all who fear you and of those who keep your precepts.
The earth, O LORD, is full of your mercy; teach me your statutes.
You have dealt well with your servant, O LORD, according to your word.
Teach me good judgment and knowledge, for I have believed your commandments.
Before I was afflicted, I went astray, but now I keep your word.
You are good and do good; teach me your statutes.
The proud have forged a lie against me, but I will keep your precepts with my whole heart.
Their heart is as fat as grease, but I delight in your law.
It is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I might learn your statutes.
The law of your mouth is better to me than thousands of gold and silver.
Your hands have made me and fashioned me; give me understanding that I may learn your commandments.
Those who fear you will be glad when they see me, because I have hoped in your word.
I know, O LORD, that your judgments are right and that in faithfulness you have afflicted me.
Let, I pray, your merciful kindness be for my comfort according to your word to your servant.
Let your tender mercies come to me that I may live, for your law is my delight.
Let the proud be ashamed, for they dealt perversely with me without a cause; but I will meditate on your precepts.
Let those who fear you turn to me, and those who have known your testimonies.
Let my heart be sound in your statutes, that I may not be ashamed.
My soul faints for your salvation, but I hope in your word.
My eyes fail for your word, saying, When will you comfort me?
For I have become like a wineskin in the smoke; yet I do not forget your statutes.
How many are the days of your servant? When will you execute judgment on those who persecute me?
The proud have dug pits for me, which are not according to your law.
All your commandments are faithful; they persecute me wrongfully; help me.
They have almost consumed me on earth, but I have not forsaken your precepts.
Revive me according to your lovingkindness; so shall I keep the testimony of your mouth.
Forever, O LORD, thy word is settled in heaven.
Thy faithfulness is unto all generations: thou hast established the earth, and it abides.
They continue this day according to thine ordinances: for all are thy servants.
Unless thy law had been my delight, I should then have perished in my affliction.
I will never forget thy precepts: for with them thou hast quickened me.
I am thine, save me: for I have sought thy precepts.
The wicked have waited for me to destroy me: but I will consider thy testimonies.
I have seen an end of all perfection: but thy commandment is exceedingly broad.
O how I love thy law! it is my meditation all the day.
Thou through thy commandments hast made me wiser than my enemies: for they are ever with me.
I have more understanding than all my teachers: for thy testimonies are my meditation.
I understand more than the ancients, because I keep thy precepts.
I have refrained my feet from every evil way, that I might keep thy word.
I have not departed from thy judgments: for thou hast taught me.
How sweet are thy words to my taste! yea, sweeter than honey to my mouth!
Through thy precepts I gain understanding: therefore I hate every false way.
Thy word is a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my path.
I have sworn, and I will perform it, that I will keep thy righteous judgments.
I am afflicted very much: quicken me, O LORD, according to thy word.
Accept, I beseech thee, the freewill offerings of my mouth, O LORD, and teach me thy judgments.
My soul is continually in my hand: yet do I not forget thy law.
The wicked have laid a snare for me: yet I erred not from thy precepts.
Thy testimonies have I taken as an heritage forever: for they are the rejoicing of my heart.
I have inclined my heart to perform thy statutes always, even unto the end.
I hate vain thoughts: but thy law do I love.
Thou art my hiding place and my shield: I hope in thy word.
Depart from me, ye evildoers: for I will keep the commandments of my God.
Uphold me according to thy word, that I may live: and let me not be ashamed of my hope.
Hold thou me up, and I shall be safe: and I will have respect unto thy statutes continually.
Thou hast trodden down all them that err from thy statutes: for their deceit is falsehood.
Thou puttest away all the wicked of the earth like dross: therefore I love thy testimonies.
My flesh trembles for fear of thee; and I am afraid of thy judgments.
I have done judgment and justice: leave me not to mine oppressors.
Be surety for thy servant for good: let not the proud oppress me.
Mine eyes fail for thy salvation, and for the word of thy righteousness.
Deal with thy servant according to thy mercy, and teach me thy statutes.
I am thy servant; give me understanding, that I may know thy testimonies.
It is time for thee, LORD, to work: for they have made void thy law.
Therefore I love thy commandments above gold; yea, above fine gold.
Therefore I esteem all thy precepts concerning all things to be right; and I hate every false way.
Thy testimonies are wonderful: therefore doth my soul keep them.
The entrance of thy words giveth light; it giveth understanding unto the simple.
I opened my mouth, and panted: for I longed for thy commandments.
Look thou upon me, and be merciful unto me, as thou usest to do unto those that love thy name.
Order my steps in thy word: and let not any iniquity have dominion over me.
Deliver me from the oppression of man: so will I keep thy precepts.
Make thy face to shine upon thy servant; and teach me thy statutes.
Rivers of waters run down mine eyes, because they keep not thy law.
Righteous art thou, O LORD, and upright are thy judgments.
Thy testimonies that thou hast commanded are righteous and very faithful.
My zeal hath consumed me, because mine enemies have forgotten thy words.
Thy word is very pure: therefore thy servant loveth it.
I am small and despised: yet do I not forget thy precepts.
Thy righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, and thy law is the truth.
Trouble and anguish have taken hold on me: yet thy commandments are my delights.
The righteousness of thy testimonies is everlasting: give me understanding, and I shall live.
I cried with my whole heart; hear me, O LORD: I will keep thy statutes.
I cried unto thee; save me, and I shall keep thy testimonies.
I prevented the dawning of the morning, and cried: I hoped in thy word.
Mine eyes prevent the night watches, that I might meditate in thy word.
Hear my voice according to thy lovingkindness: O LORD, quicken me according to thy judgment.
They draw nigh that follow after mischief: they are far from thy law.
Thou art near, O LORD; and all thy commandments are truth.
Concerning thy testimonies, I have known of old that thou hast founded them forever.
Consider mine affliction, and deliver me: for I do not forget thy law.
Plead my cause, and deliver me: quicken me according to thy word.
Salvation is far from the wicked: for they seek not thy statutes.
Great are thy tender mercies, O LORD: quicken me according to thy judgments.
Many are my persecutors and mine enemies; yet do I not decline from thy testimonies.
I beheld the transgressors, and was grieved; because they kept not thy word.
Consider how I love thy precepts: quicken me, O LORD, according to thy lovingkindness.
Thy word is true from the beginning: and every one of thy righteous judgments endureth forever.
Princes have persecuted me without a cause: but my heart standeth in awe of thy word.
I rejoice at thy word, as one that findeth great spoil.
I hate and abhor lying: but thy law do I love.
Seven times a day do I praise thee because of thy righteous judgments.
Great peace have they which love thy law: and nothing shall offend them.
LORD, I have hoped for thy salvation, and done thy commandments.
My soul hath kept thy testimonies; and I love them exceedingly.
I have kept thy precepts and thy testimonies: for all my ways are before thee.
Let my cry come near before thee, O LORD: give me understanding according to thy word.
Let my supplication come before thee: deliver me according to thy word.
My lips shall utter praise, when thou hast taught me thy statutes.
My tongue shall speak of thy word: for all thy commandments are righteousness.
Let thine hand help me; for I have chosen thy precepts.
I have longed for thy salvation, O LORD; and thy law is my delight.
Let my soul live, and it shall praise thee; and let thy judgments help me.
I have gone astray like a lost sheep; seek thy servant; for I do not forget thy commandments.
