I ask, has God rejected His people? Absolutely not. For I too am an Israelite, a descendant of Abraham, from the tribe of Benjamin.
God has not rejected His people whom He foreknew. Do you not know what the Scripture says about Elijah? How he intercedes with God against Israel, saying,
"Lord, they have killed Your prophets and torn down Your altars; and I alone am left, and they seek my life."
But what is God's reply to him? "I have reserved for myself seven thousand men who have not bowed the knee to Baal."
So, at the present time, there is a remnant chosen by grace.
And if it is by grace, then it is no longer by works; otherwise, grace would no longer be grace. But if it is by works, then it is no longer grace; otherwise, work would no longer be work.
What then? Israel has not obtained what it seeks; but the elect have obtained it, and the rest were hardened.
(As it is written, "God has given them a spirit of stupor, eyes that should not see and ears that should not hear," to this very day.)
And David says, "Let their table become a snare and a trap, a stumbling block and a retribution for them.
Let their eyes be darkened so they cannot see, and their backs be bent forever."
I ask then, did they stumble so as to fall beyond recovery? Not at all! Rather, because of their transgression, salvation has come to the Gentiles to make Israel envious.
If their transgression means riches for the world, and their loss means riches for the Gentiles, how much greater riches will their fullness bring?
I am talking to you Gentiles. Inasmuch as I am the apostle to the Gentiles, I take pride in my ministry
in the hope that I may somehow arouse my own people to envy and save some of them.
For if their rejection brought reconciliation to the world, what will their acceptance be but life from the dead?
If the part of the dough offered as firstfruits is holy, then the whole batch is holy; and if the root is holy, so are the branches.
If some of the branches have been broken off, and you, though a wild olive shoot, have been grafted in among the others and now share in the nourishing sap from the olive root,
do not consider yourself to be superior to those branches. If you do, consider this: You do not support the root, but the root supports you.
You will say then, "Branches were broken off so that I could be grafted in."
Granted. But they were broken off because of unbelief, and you stand by faith. Do not be arrogant, but tremble.
For if God did not spare the natural branches, He will not spare you either.
Consider therefore the kindness and sternness of God: sternness to those who fell, but kindness to you, provided that you continue in His kindness. Otherwise, you also will be cut off.
And if they do not persist in unbelief, they will be grafted in, for God is able to graft them in again.
If you were cut out of an olive tree that is wild by nature, and contrary to nature were grafted into a cultivated olive tree, how much more readily will these, the natural branches, be grafted into their own olive tree?
I do not want you to be ignorant of this mystery, brothers and sisters, so that you may not be conceited: Israel has experienced a hardening in part until the full number of the Gentiles has come in.
And in this way, all Israel will be saved, as it is written: "The Deliverer will come from Zion; He will turn godlessness away from Jacob.
And this is my covenant with them when I take away their sins."
As far as the gospel is concerned, they are enemies for your sake; but as far as election is concerned, they are loved on account of the patriarchs,
for God's gifts and His call are irrevocable.
Just as you who were at one time disobedient to God have now received mercy as a result of their disobedience,
so they too have now become disobedient in order that they too may now receive mercy as a result of God's mercy to you.
For God has bound everyone over to disobedience so that He may have mercy on them all.
Oh, the depth of the riches of the wisdom and knowledge of God! How unsearchable His judgments, and His paths beyond tracing out!
Who has known the mind of the Lord? Or who has been His counselor?
Who has ever given to God, that God should repay them?
For from Him and through Him and for Him are all things. To Him be the glory forever! Amen.
