These are the statutes and judgments that you shall observe and follow in the land that the LORD God of your ancestors is giving you to possess, for as long as you live on the earth.
You shall completely destroy all the places where the nations you will dispossess worshipped their gods, on the high mountains, on the hills, and under every green tree.
You shall tear down their altars, smash their sacred pillars, and burn their groves with fire; you shall cut down the carved images of their gods and eliminate their names from that place.
You must not do this to the LORD your God.
Instead, you shall seek the place that the LORD your God will choose from among all your tribes to put His name there; to His dwelling place you shall go.
There you shall bring your burnt offerings, your sacrifices, your tithes, the heave offerings of your hand, your vows, your freewill offerings, and the firstborn of your herds and flocks.
And there you shall eat before the LORD your God, and you shall rejoice in all that you put your hand to, you and your households, in which the LORD your God has blessed you.
You must not follow the practices we do here today, where everyone does what is right in their own eyes.
For you have not yet come to the rest and the inheritance that the LORD your God is giving you.
But when you cross the Jordan and settle in the land that the LORD your God is giving you to inherit, and when He gives you rest from all your enemies around you, so that you live in safety;
Then there will be a place that the LORD your God will choose to make His name dwell there; to that place you shall bring everything I command you: your burnt offerings, your sacrifices, your tithes, the heave offerings of your hand, and all your choice vows that you make to the LORD.
And you shall rejoice before the LORD your God, you, your sons, your daughters, your male and female servants, and the Levite who is within your gates, since he has no portion or inheritance with you.
Be careful not to offer your burnt offerings in every place you see;
But in the place that the LORD will choose in one of your tribes, there you shall offer your burnt offerings, and there you shall do all that I command you.
However, you may kill and eat meat in all your gates, whatever your soul desires, according to the blessing of the LORD your God that He has given you: both the clean and the unclean may eat of it, as of the gazelle and the deer.
Only you must not eat the blood; you shall pour it out on the ground like water.
You may not eat within your gates the tithe of your grain, your wine, your oil, the firstborn of your herds or flocks, or any of your vows that you make, or your freewill offerings, or the heave offerings of your hand;
But you must eat them before the LORD your God in the place that the LORD your God will choose, you, your son, your daughter, your male servant, your female servant, and the Levite who is within your gates; and you shall rejoice before the LORD your God in all that you put your hands to.
Be careful not to forsake the Levite as long as you live on the earth.
When the LORD your God enlarges your territory as He has promised you, and you say, "I will eat meat," because your soul longs to eat meat; you may eat meat, whatever your soul desires.
If the place that the LORD your God has chosen to put His name there is too far from you, then you may slaughter from your herd and your flock that the LORD has given you, as I have commanded you, and you may eat in your gates whatever your soul desires.
Just as the gazelle and the deer are eaten, so you may eat them: the clean and the unclean may eat of them alike.
Only be sure that you do not eat the blood, for the blood is the life; you must not eat the life with the flesh.
You shall not eat it; you shall pour it out on the ground like water.
You shall not eat it, so that it may go well with you and your children after you, when you do what is right in the sight of the LORD.
Only your holy things that you have, and your vows, you shall take and go to the place that the LORD will choose.
And you shall offer your burnt offerings, the flesh and the blood, on the altar of the LORD your God; and the blood of your sacrifices shall be poured out on the altar of the LORD your God, and you shall eat the flesh.
Observe and listen to all these words that I command you, so that it may go well with you and your children after you forever, when you do what is good and right in the sight of the LORD your God.
When the LORD your God cuts off the nations before you, where you go to possess them, and you dispossess them and dwell in their land;
Be careful not to be ensnared by following them after they have been destroyed before you; and do not inquire after their gods, saying, "How did these nations serve their gods? I will do likewise."
You must not do this to the LORD your God, for every abomination to the LORD, which He hates, they have done to their gods; for even their sons and daughters they have burned in the fire to their gods.
Whatever I command you, be sure to observe it; you must not add to it or take away from it.
