But concerning the times and seasons, brethren, you have no need for me to write to you.
For you yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord comes as a thief in the night.
For when they say, "Peace and safety," then sudden destruction comes upon them, as labor pains upon a woman with child; and they shall not escape.
But you, brethren, are not in darkness, so that day should overtake you as a thief.
You are all children of light and children of the day: we are not of the night, nor of darkness.
Therefore, let us not sleep, as others do; but let us watch and be sober.
For those who sleep, sleep at night; and those who get drunk are drunk at night.
But let us, who are of the day, be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love; and as a helmet, the hope of salvation.
For God has not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ,
Who died for us, so that whether we wake or sleep, we should live together with Him.
Therefore, comfort one another and edify one another, just as you also do.
And we urge you, brethren, to recognize those who labor among you, and are over you in the Lord, and admonish you;
And to esteem them very highly in love for their work's sake. Be at peace among yourselves.
Now we exhort you, brethren, warn those who are unruly, comfort the fainthearted, support the weak, be patient with all.
See that none render evil for evil to any man; but always pursue that which is good, both among yourselves and to all people.
Rejoice always.
Pray without ceasing.
In everything give thanks: for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you.
Do not quench the Spirit.
Do not despise prophecies.
Test all things; hold fast to that which is good.
Abstain from every form of evil.
And may the God of peace sanctify you completely; and I pray that your whole spirit, soul, and body be preserved blameless until the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Faithful is He who calls you, who also will do it.
Brothers, pray for us.
Greet all the brothers with a holy kiss.
I charge you by the Lord that this letter be read to all the holy brothers.
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen.
