And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,  
"Speak to the children of Israel and tell them, 'When you enter the land of your dwellings, which I am giving to you,  
and you make an offering by fire to the LORD, whether a burnt offering, a sacrifice in fulfilling a vow, a freewill offering, or during your solemn feasts, to create a pleasing aroma to the LORD, from the herd or from the flock:  
then the one who offers their offering to the LORD shall bring a grain offering of a tenth of an ephah of flour mixed with a quarter of a hin of oil.  
And you shall prepare a quarter of a hin of wine for a drink offering with the burnt offering or sacrifice for one lamb.  
For a ram, you shall prepare a grain offering of two-tenths of an ephah of flour mixed with a third of a hin of oil.  
And for a drink offering, you shall offer a third of a hin of wine, creating a pleasing aroma to the LORD.  
When you prepare a bull for a burnt offering, or for a sacrifice in fulfilling a vow, or for peace offerings to the LORD:  
then you shall bring with the bull a grain offering of three-tenths of an ephah of flour mixed with half a hin of oil.  
And you shall bring for a drink offering half a hin of wine, as an offering made by fire, creating a pleasing aroma to the LORD.  
This is how it shall be done for one bull, one ram, one lamb, or a goat.  
According to the number you prepare, so shall you do for each one according to their number.  
All who are native-born shall do these things in this manner, offering an offering made by fire, creating a pleasing aroma to the LORD.  
And if a stranger sojourns with you, or anyone among you in your generations, and wishes to offer an offering made by fire, creating a pleasing aroma to the LORD; as you do, so shall he do.  
There shall be one ordinance for both you and the stranger who sojourns with you, an everlasting ordinance in your generations: as you are, so shall the stranger be before the LORD.  
One law and one custom shall be for you and for the stranger who sojourns with you.  
And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,  
"Speak to the children of Israel and tell them, 'When you come into the land to which I bring you,  
then it shall be, that when you eat of the bread of the land, you shall offer up a heave offering to the LORD.  
You shall offer a cake from the first of your dough as a heave offering: as you do the heave offering of the threshing floor, so shall you heave it.  
From the first of your dough, you shall give to the LORD a heave offering in your generations.  
And if you have erred and not observed all these commandments, which the LORD has spoken to Moses,  
even all that the LORD has commanded you through the hand of Moses, from the day that the LORD commanded Moses and onward among your generations;  
then it shall be, if anything is committed in ignorance without the knowledge of the congregation, that all the congregation shall offer one young bull for a burnt offering, creating a pleasing aroma to the LORD, with its grain offering and its drink offering, according to the custom, and one goat for a sin offering.  
And the priest shall make atonement for all the congregation of the children of Israel, and it shall be forgiven them; for it is ignorance: and they shall bring their offering, a sacrifice made by fire to the LORD, and their sin offering before the LORD for their ignorance:  
and it shall be forgiven all the congregation of the children of Israel, and the stranger who sojourns among them; since all the people were in ignorance.  
And if any person sins through ignorance, then he shall bring a she-goat of the first year for a sin offering.  
And the priest shall make atonement for the soul that sins ignorantly, when he sins by ignorance before the LORD, to make atonement for him; and it shall be forgiven him.  
You shall have one law for the one who sins through ignorance, both for the native-born among the children of Israel and for the stranger who sojourns among them.  
But the soul that acts presumptuously, whether he is born in the land or a stranger, reproaches the LORD; and that soul shall be cut off from among his people.  
Because he has despised the word of the LORD and has broken His commandment, that soul shall be utterly cut off; his iniquity shall be upon him.  
And while the children of Israel were in the wilderness, they found a man gathering sticks on the Sabbath day.  
And those who found him gathering sticks brought him to Moses and Aaron, and to all the congregation.  
And they put him in custody, because it had not been declared what should be done to him.  
And the LORD said to Moses, 'The man shall surely be put to death; all the congregation shall stone him with stones outside the camp.'  
And all the congregation brought him outside the camp and stoned him with stones, and he died, as the LORD commanded Moses.  
And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,  
"Speak to the children of Israel and tell them to make fringes on the corners of their garments throughout their generations, and to put a blue cord on the fringe of the corners.  
And it shall be a fringe for you to look upon and remember all the commandments of the LORD and do them; and that you do not follow your own heart and your own eyes, after which you used to go astray:  
that you may remember and do all my commandments and be holy to your God.  
I am the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, to be your God: I am the LORD your God."