Paul and Timotheus, the servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are at Philippi, with the bishops and deacons:
Grace be unto you, and peace, from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
I thank my God upon every remembrance of you,
Always in every prayer of mine for you all making requests with joy,
For your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now;
Being confident of this very thing, that he who has begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ:
Even as it is right for me to think this of you all, because I have you in my heart; inasmuch as both in my bonds and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel, you all are partakers of my grace.
For God is my witness, how greatly I long for you all in the affection of Jesus Christ.
And this I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and in all discernment;
That you may approve things that are excellent; that you may be sincere and without offense until the day of Christ.
Being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are by Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God.
But I want you to understand, brethren, that the things which happened to me have turned out rather for the furtherance of the gospel;
So that my bonds in Christ are evident in all the palace and in all other places;
And many of the brethren in the Lord, becoming confident by my bonds, are much more bold to speak the word without fear.
Some indeed preach Christ even from envy and strife, and some also from goodwill:
The one preaches Christ from contention, not sincerely, supposing to add affliction to my bonds:
But the other out of love, knowing that I am appointed for the defense of the gospel.
What then? Nevertheless, in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is preached; and in this I rejoice, yes, and will rejoice.
For I know that this will turn out for my salvation through your prayer and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,
According to my earnest expectation and hope, that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but that with all boldness, as always, so now also Christ will be magnified in my body, whether by life or by death.
For to me, to live is Christ, and to die is gain.
But if I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labor; yet what I shall choose I cannot tell.
For I am hard-pressed between the two, having a desire to depart and be with Christ, which is far better;
Nevertheless, to remain in the flesh is more needful for you.
And having this confidence, I know that I shall remain and continue with you all for your progress and joy of faith;
That your rejoicing may be more abundant in Jesus Christ for me by my coming to you again.
Only let your conduct be worthy of the gospel of Christ, so that whether I come and see you or am absent, I may hear of your affairs, that you stand fast in one spirit, with one mind striving together for the faith of the gospel;
And in nothing terrified by your adversaries, which is to them a clear sign of perdition, but to you of salvation, and that from God.
For to you it has been granted on behalf of Christ, not only to believe in him, but also to suffer for his sake;
Having the same conflict which you saw in me, and now hear to be in me.
