The burden of the word of the LORD to Israel, delivered by Malachi.
"I have loved you," says the LORD. Yet you ask, "How have you loved us?" "Was not Esau Jacob's brother?" says the LORD. "Yet I loved Jacob,
but I hated Esau, and made his mountains and his heritage desolate, leaving them for the dragons of the wilderness.
Edom says, "We are impoverished, but we will return and rebuild the desolate places." Thus says the LORD of hosts: "They shall build, but I will throw down; and they shall be called the border of wickedness, and the people against whom the LORD has indignation forever."
Your eyes shall see this, and you shall say, "The LORD will be magnified beyond the borders of Israel."
A son honors his father, and a servant his master. If I am a father, where is my honor? If I am a master, where is my fear?" says the LORD of hosts to you, O priests, who despise my name. And you ask, "How have we despised your name?"
You offer polluted bread upon my altar, and you ask, "How have we polluted you?" By saying, "The table of the LORD is contemptible."
And if you offer the blind for sacrifice, is it not evil? If you offer the lame and sick, is it not evil? Present it now to your governor; will he be pleased with you or accept your person?" says the LORD of hosts.
And now, I pray you, beseech God to be gracious to us; this has been your doing. Will he regard your persons?" says the LORD of hosts.
Who among you would shut the doors for nothing? Neither do you kindle fire on my altar for nothing. I have no pleasure in you," says the LORD of hosts, "nor will I accept an offering from your hand.
For from the rising of the sun to its setting, my name shall be great among the Gentiles; and in every place, incense shall be offered to my name, and a pure offering; for my name shall be great among the nations," says the LORD of hosts.
But you have profaned it by saying, "The table of the LORD is polluted, and its fruit, even its food, is contemptible."
You also said, "What a weariness this is!" and you have snorted at it," says the LORD of hosts. You brought what was torn, the lame, and the sick; thus you brought an offering. Should I accept this from your hand?" says the LORD.
But cursed be the deceiver who has in his flock a male and vows, yet sacrifices to the LORD a corrupt thing; for I am a great King," says the LORD of hosts, "and my name is dreadful among the nations."
