Now, when Jacob noticed that there was grain in Egypt, he said to his sons, "Why do you look at each other?"
He continued, "I have heard that there is grain in Egypt; go down there and buy some for us, so that we may live and not die."
So, Joseph's ten brothers went down to Egypt to buy grain.
However, Jacob did not send Benjamin, Joseph's brother, with his brothers, for he said, "I fear some harm may come to him."
The sons of Israel came to buy grain among those who were coming, for there was a famine in the land of Canaan.
Joseph was the governor of the land, and he was the one who sold grain to all the people. When Joseph's brothers came, they bowed down to him with their faces to the ground.
Joseph recognized his brothers, but he pretended to be a stranger and spoke harshly to them, asking, "Where do you come from?" They replied, "From the land of Canaan to buy food."
Joseph knew who they were, but they did not recognize him.
He remembered the dreams he had about them and said, "You are spies; you have come to see the nakedness of the land."
They responded, "No, my lord, we have come to buy food."
"We are all sons of one man; we are honest men; your servants are not spies."
Joseph replied, "No, you have come to see the nakedness of the land."
They said, "Your servants are twelve brothers, the sons of one man in the land of Canaan; the youngest is with our father today, and one is no longer with us."
Joseph said, "This is how you will be tested: As surely as Pharaoh lives, you will not leave this place unless your youngest brother comes here."
"Send one of you to get your brother, while the rest of you will be kept in prison, so that your words may be tested to see if you are telling the truth. If not, then as surely as Pharaoh lives, you are spies."
He put them all in custody for three days.
On the third day, Joseph said to them, "Do this and you will live, for I fear God.
If you are honest men, let one of your brothers stay here in prison, while the rest of you go and take grain back for your starving households.
But you must bring your youngest brother to me so that your words may be verified and you will not die." They agreed to do so.
They said to one another, "We are truly guilty concerning our brother, for we saw the anguish of his soul when he pleaded with us, and we would not listen; that is why this distress has come upon us."
Reuben replied, "Did I not tell you not to sin against the boy, but you would not listen? Now his blood is required of us."
They did not realize that Joseph understood them, since he was speaking through an interpreter.
He turned away from them and wept, then returned to them and spoke to them again. He took Simeon from them and bound him before their eyes.
Joseph then gave orders to fill their sacks with grain, to return each man's money to his sack, and to provide them with provisions for their journey. And this was done for them.
They loaded their donkeys with the grain and departed.
As one of them opened his sack to give his donkey fodder at the inn, he saw his money in the sack's mouth.
He said to his brothers, "My money has been returned; it is in my sack!" Their hearts sank, and they were afraid, saying to one another, "What has God done to us?"
When they returned to their father Jacob in the land of Canaan, they told him everything that had happened to them, saying,
"The man who is the lord of the land spoke harshly to us and accused us of being spies."
"We told him, 'We are honest men; we are not spies.
We are twelve brothers, sons of our father; one is no longer with us, and the youngest is with our father in the land of Canaan.'"
The man, the lord of the land, said to us, "This is how I will know that you are honest men: Leave one of your brothers here with me, and take grain for the famine of your households and go.
But bring your youngest brother to me so that I will know that you are not spies but honest men. Then I will give you your brother back, and you may trade in the land."
As they emptied their sacks, they discovered that each man's bundle of money was in his sack. When they and their father saw the bundles of money, they were frightened.
Jacob, their father, said to them, "You have bereaved me of my children: Joseph is no more, Simeon is no more, and now you want to take Benjamin away. Everything is against me!"
Reuben said to his father, "You may put my two sons to death if I do not bring him back to you. Entrust him to my care, and I will bring him back."
But Jacob said, "My son will not go down with you; his brother is dead, and he is the only one left. If harm comes to him on the journey you are taking, you will bring my gray hairs down to the grave in sorrow."
