But Job replied and said,  
Oh, that my grief were thoroughly weighed, and my calamity placed in the balances together!  
For now it would be heavier than the sand of the sea; therefore, my words are overwhelmed.  
For the arrows of the Almighty are within me; the poison of which drains my spirit: the terrors of God array themselves against me.  
Does the wild donkey bray when it has grass? Or does the ox low over its fodder?  
Can something tasteless be eaten without salt? Is there any flavor in the egg white?  
The things my soul refuses to touch are like my sorrowful food.  
Oh, that I might have my request; that God would grant me the thing I long for!  
Even that it would please God to destroy me; that He would let loose His hand and cut me off!  
Then I would still have comfort; yes, I would harden myself in sorrow: let Him not spare, for I have not concealed the words of the Holy One.  
What is my strength, that I should hope? And what is my end, that I should prolong my life?  
Is my strength the strength of stones? Or is my flesh made of brass?  
Is not my help within me? And is wisdom completely driven from me?  
To him who is afflicted, pity should be shown by his friend; but he forsakes the fear of the Almighty.  
My brothers have dealt deceitfully like a brook, and like the streams of brooks, they pass away;  
Which are darkened by the ice, and where the snow is hidden:  
When they warm up, they vanish; when it is hot, they are consumed from their place.  
The paths of their way are turned aside; they go to nothing and perish.  
The troops of Tema looked; the companies of Sheba waited for them.  
They were confounded because they had hoped; they came there and were ashamed.  
For now you are nothing; you see my downfall and are afraid.  
Did I say, "Bring to me"? Or, "Give a reward for me from your substance"?  
Or, "Deliver me from the enemy's hand"? Or, "Redeem me from the hand of the mighty"?  
Teach me, and I will hold my tongue; and cause me to understand where I have erred.  
How forceful are right words! But what does your arguing prove?  
Do you think to reprove words, and the speeches of one who is desperate, which are like wind?  
Yes, you overwhelm the fatherless, and you dig a pit for your friend.  
Now therefore be content, look upon me; for it is evident to you if I lie.  
Return, I pray you, let it not be iniquity; yes, return again, my righteousness is in it.  
Is there iniquity in my tongue? Can my taste not discern perverse things?  