Hear the word of the LORD, O children of Israel: for the LORD has a dispute with the inhabitants of the land, because there is no truth, nor mercy, nor knowledge of God in the land.  
By swearing, lying, killing, stealing, and committing adultery, they break out, and blood touches blood.  
Therefore, the land shall mourn, and everyone who dwells therein shall languish, along with the beasts of the field and the birds of the heavens; indeed, the fish of the sea shall also be taken away.  
Yet let no man contend, nor rebuke another: for your people are like those who contend with the priest.  
Therefore, you shall fall by day, and the prophet shall also fall with you by night, and I will destroy your mother.  
My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge: because you have rejected knowledge, I will also reject you, so that you shall be no priest to me; since you have forgotten the law of your God, I will also forget your children.  
As they increased, so they sinned against me: therefore, I will change their glory into shame.  
They consume the sin of my people, and they set their hearts on their iniquity.  
And there shall be, like people, like priest: and I will punish them for their ways, and reward them for their deeds.  
For they shall eat, and not have enough; they shall commit whoredom, and not increase: because they have ceased to pay attention to the LORD.  
Whoredom, wine, and new wine take away the heart.  
My people seek counsel from their wooden idols, and their staff gives them oracles: for the spirit of whoredoms has led them astray, and they have gone a whoring from under their God.  
They sacrifice on the tops of the mountains and burn incense on the hills, under oaks, poplars, and elms, because their shade is pleasant: therefore, your daughters shall commit whoredom, and your spouses shall commit adultery.  
I will not punish your daughters when they commit whoredom, nor your spouses when they commit adultery: for they themselves are separated with whores, and they sacrifice with harlots: therefore, the people who do not understand shall fall.  
Though you, Israel, play the harlot, let not Judah offend; and do not come to Gilgal, nor go up to Bethaven, nor swear, "The LORD lives."  
For Israel has slid back like a backsliding heifer: now the LORD will feed them like a lamb in a large place.  
Ephraim is joined to idols: let him alone.  
Their drink is sour; they have committed whoredom continually: her rulers love shameful gain.  
The wind has wrapped her up in its wings, and they shall be ashamed because of their sacrifices.