Then Solomon gathered the elders of Israel, along with the heads of the tribes and the leaders of the families of the children of Israel, to King Solomon in Jerusalem, so they could bring up the ark of the covenant of the LORD from the city of David, which is Zion.
All the men of Israel gathered to King Solomon at the feast in the month of Ethanim, which is the seventh month.
The elders of Israel arrived, and the priests lifted the ark.
They brought up the ark of the LORD, the tabernacle of the congregation, and all the holy vessels that were in the tabernacle; the priests and the Levites carried them up.
King Solomon and the entire assembly of Israel, who had gathered with him, stood before the ark, offering sacrifices of sheep and oxen, too numerous to count.
The priests brought the ark of the covenant of the LORD to its place, into the inner sanctuary of the temple, the most holy place, beneath the wings of the cherubim.
The cherubim spread their two wings over the place of the ark, covering the ark and its poles from above.
They drew out the poles, so that the ends of the poles could be seen from the holy place in front of the inner sanctuary, but they were not visible outside; they remain there to this day.
There was nothing in the ark except the two stone tablets that Moses had placed there at Horeb, when the LORD made a covenant with the children of Israel after they came out of Egypt.
When the priests came out of the holy place, the cloud filled the house of the LORD,
So that the priests could not stand to minister because of the cloud, for the glory of the LORD had filled the house of the LORD.
Then Solomon said, "The LORD said that He would dwell in thick darkness.
I have indeed built You a house to dwell in, a settled place for You to abide in forever."
The king turned around and blessed all the congregation of Israel; (and all the congregation of Israel stood.)
He said, "Blessed be the LORD God of Israel, who spoke with His mouth to David my father and has fulfilled it with His hand, saying,
'Since the day I brought My people Israel out of Egypt, I chose no city among all the tribes of Israel to build a house, that My name might be there; but I chose David to be over My people Israel.'
It was in the heart of David my father to build a house for the name of the LORD God of Israel.
The LORD said to David my father, 'Since it was in your heart to build a house for My name, you did well that it was in your heart.
Nevertheless, you shall not build the house; your son, who will come from your loins, he shall build the house for My name.'
The LORD has fulfilled His word that He spoke; I have risen up in the place of David my father and sit on the throne of Israel, as the LORD promised, and have built a house for the name of the LORD God of Israel.
I have set there a place for the ark, in which is the covenant of the LORD that He made with our fathers when He brought them out of the land of Egypt.
Solomon stood before the altar of the LORD in the presence of all the congregation of Israel and spread forth his hands toward heaven.
He said, "LORD God of Israel, there is no God like You, in heaven above or on earth beneath, who keeps covenant and mercy with Your servants who walk before You with all their heart.
You have kept with Your servant David my father what You promised him; You spoke with Your mouth, and have fulfilled it with Your hand, as it is this day.
Therefore, now, LORD God of Israel, keep with Your servant David my father what You promised him, saying, 'There shall not fail you a man in My sight to sit on the throne of Israel; so long as your children take heed to their way, that they walk before Me as you have walked before Me.'
And now, O God of Israel, let Your word, I pray, be verified, which You spoke to Your servant David my father.
But will God indeed dwell on the earth? Behold, the heaven and the heaven of heavens cannot contain You; how much less this house that I have built!
Yet have respect to the prayer of Your servant and to his supplication, O LORD my God, to listen to the cry and to the prayer which Your servant prays before You today:
That Your eyes may be open toward this house night and day, even toward the place of which You have said, 'My name shall be there,' that You may listen to the prayer which Your servant shall make toward this place.
And listen to the supplication of Your servant and of Your people Israel when they pray toward this place; and hear in heaven Your dwelling place; and when You hear, forgive.
If any man sins against his neighbor, and an oath is laid upon him to cause him to swear, and the oath comes before Your altar in this house:
Then hear in heaven, and do, and judge Your servants, condemning the wicked, to bring his way upon his head; and justifying the righteous, to give him according to his righteousness.
When Your people Israel are defeated before the enemy because they have sinned against You, and they turn back to You and confess Your name, and pray, and make supplication to You in this house:
Then hear in heaven, and forgive the sin of Your people Israel, and bring them back to the land which You gave to their fathers.
When heaven is shut up and there is no rain because they have sinned against You; if they pray toward this place, and confess Your name, and turn from their sin when You afflict them:
Then hear in heaven, and forgive the sin of Your servants and of Your people Israel, that You may teach them the good way in which they should walk, and give rain upon Your land, which You have given to Your people for an inheritance.
If there is famine in the land, if there is pestilence, blight, mildew, locust, or if there is caterpillar; if their enemy besieges them in the land of their cities; whatever plague, whatever sickness there is;
What prayer and supplication soever be made by any man, or by all Your people Israel, which shall know every man the plague of his own heart, and spread forth his hands toward this house:
Then hear in heaven Your dwelling place, and forgive, and do, and give to every man according to his ways, whose heart You know; (for You alone know the hearts of all the children of men;)
That they may fear You all the days that they live in the land which You gave to our fathers.
Moreover, concerning a stranger, who is not of Your people Israel, but comes from a far country for Your name's sake;
(For they shall hear of Your great name, and of Your strong hand, and of Your outstretched arm;) when he comes and prays toward this house;
Hear in heaven Your dwelling place, and do according to all that the stranger calls to You for; that all the peoples of the earth may know Your name, to fear You, as do Your people Israel; and that they may know that this house, which I have built, is called by Your name.
If Your people go out to battle against their enemy, wherever You send them, and shall pray to the LORD toward the city which You have chosen, and toward the house that I have built for Your name:
Then hear in heaven their prayer and their supplication, and maintain their cause.
If they sin against You, (for there is no man who does not sin,) and You become angry with them, and deliver them to the enemy, so that they carry them away captive to the land of the enemy, far or near;
Yet if they shall come to themselves in the land where they were carried captive, and repent, and make supplication to You in the land of those who carried them captive, saying, 'We have sinned, and have done wrong, we have committed wickedness;'
And so return to You with all their heart and with all their soul, in the land of their enemies who led them away captive, and pray to You toward their land, which You gave to their fathers, the city which You have chosen, and the house which I have built for Your name:
Then hear their prayer and their supplication in heaven Your dwelling place, and maintain their cause,
And forgive Your people who have sinned against You, and all their transgressions in which they have transgressed against You, and give them compassion before those who carried them captive, that they may have compassion on them:
For they are Your people and Your inheritance, whom You brought out of Egypt, from the midst of the iron furnace:
That Your eyes may be open to the supplication of Your servant and to the supplication of Your people Israel, to listen to them in all that they call for to You.
For You separated them from among all the peoples of the earth, to be Your inheritance, as You spoke by the hand of Moses Your servant when You brought our fathers out of Egypt, O LORD God.
And it was so, that when Solomon had finished praying all this prayer and supplication to the LORD, he arose from before the altar of the LORD, from kneeling on his knees with his hands spread up to heaven.
He stood and blessed all the congregation of Israel with a loud voice, saying,
"Blessed be the LORD, who has given rest to His people Israel, according to all that He promised; not one word has failed of all His good promise, which He promised by the hand of Moses His servant.
The LORD our God be with us, as He was with our fathers; may He not leave us nor forsake us:
That He may incline our hearts to Him, to walk in all His ways, and to keep His commandments, His statutes, and His judgments, which He commanded our fathers.
And let these words of mine, with which I have made supplication before the LORD, be near to the LORD our God day and night, that He may maintain the cause of His servant and the cause of His people Israel at all times, as the matter shall require:
That all the peoples of the earth may know that the LORD is God, and that there is none else.
Let your heart therefore be perfect with the LORD our God, to walk in His statutes, and to keep His commandments, as at this day.
The king, and all Israel with him, offered sacrifices before the LORD.
Solomon offered a sacrifice of peace offerings, which he offered to the LORD, twenty-two thousand oxen and one hundred and twenty thousand sheep. So the king and all the children of Israel dedicated the house of the LORD.
On that same day, the king consecrated the middle of the court that was before the house of the LORD; for there he offered burnt offerings, grain offerings, and the fat of the peace offerings, because the bronze altar that was before the LORD was too small to receive the burnt offerings, grain offerings, and the fat of the peace offerings.
At that time, Solomon held a feast, and all Israel with him, a great assembly, from the entrance of Hamath to the river of Egypt, before the LORD our God, for seven days and seven days, even fourteen days.
On the eighth day, he sent the people away, and they blessed the king and went to their tents joyful and glad of heart for all the goodness that the LORD had done for David His servant and for Israel His people.
