Woe to the rebellious children, says the LORD, who take counsel, but not from me; and who cover themselves with a covering, but not with my spirit, in order to add sin to sin.  
They walk down to Egypt, and have not sought my guidance; to strengthen themselves in the strength of Pharaoh, and to trust in the shadow of Egypt!  
Therefore, the strength of Pharaoh will be your shame, and the trust in the shadow of Egypt will bring you confusion.  
For his princes were at Zoan, and his ambassadors came to Hanes.  
They were all ashamed of a people that could not benefit them, nor provide help or profit, but only shame and reproach.  
The burden of the beasts of the south: into the land of trouble and anguish, from which come the young and old lion, the viper, and the fiery flying serpent; they will carry their riches on the shoulders of young donkeys, and their treasures on the humps of camels, to a people that will not benefit them.  
For the Egyptians will help in vain, and to no purpose: therefore I have cried concerning this, Their strength is to remain still.  
Now go, write it before them on a tablet, and note it in a book, that it may be for the time to come, forever and ever:  
That this is a rebellious people, deceitful children, children who will not listen to the law of the LORD:  
Who say to the seers, Do not see; and to the prophets, Do not prophesy to us right things, speak to us smooth things, prophesy illusions:  
Get out of the way, turn aside from the path, cause the Holy One of Israel to cease from before us.  
Therefore, thus says the Holy One of Israel, Because you despise this word, and trust in oppression and perverseness, and rely on them:  
This iniquity will be to you like a breach ready to fall, swelling out in a high wall, whose breaking comes suddenly, at an instant.  
And he will break it like the breaking of a potter's vessel that is shattered; he will not spare: so that there will not be found in its fragments a shard to take fire from the hearth, or to draw water from the pit.  
For thus says the Lord GOD, the Holy One of Israel; In returning and rest you shall be saved; in quietness and confidence shall be your strength: but you would not.  
But you said, No; for we will flee on horses; therefore you shall flee: and, We will ride on swift steeds; therefore those who pursue you shall be swift.  
One thousand shall flee at the rebuke of one; at the rebuke of five you shall flee: until you are left as a beacon on the top of a mountain, and as an ensign on a hill.  
And therefore the LORD will wait, that he may be gracious to you, and therefore he will be exalted, that he may have mercy on you: for the LORD is a God of judgment: blessed are all who wait for him.  
For the people shall dwell in Zion at Jerusalem: you shall weep no more: he will be very gracious to you at the sound of your cry; when he hears it, he will answer you.  
And though the Lord gives you the bread of adversity, and the water of affliction, yet your teachers shall no longer be hidden in a corner, but your eyes shall see your teachers:  
And your ears shall hear a word behind you, saying, This is the way, walk in it, when you turn to the right hand, and when you turn to the left.  
You shall also defile the covering of your graven images of silver, and the ornament of your molten images of gold: you shall cast them away like a menstruous cloth; you shall say to it, Get away from here.  
Then he will give the rain for your seed, that you may sow the ground with it; and the bread of the increase of the earth, and it shall be rich and plentiful: in that day your cattle will feed in large pastures.  
The oxen and the young donkeys that work the ground shall eat clean fodder, which has been winnowed with the shovel and with the fan.  
And there shall be on every high mountain, and on every high hill, rivers and streams of water in the day of the great slaughter, when the towers fall.  
Moreover, the light of the moon shall be like the light of the sun, and the light of the sun shall be sevenfold, as the light of seven days, in the day that the LORD binds up the breach of his people, and heals the stroke of their wound.  
Behold, the name of the LORD comes from afar, burning with his anger, and the burden of it is heavy: his lips are full of indignation, and his tongue is like a devouring fire:  
And his breath, like an overflowing stream, shall reach to the midst of the neck, to sift the nations with the sieve of vanity: and there shall be a bridle in the jaws of the people, causing them to err.  
You shall have a song, as in the night when a holy solemnity is kept; and gladness of heart, as when one goes with a pipe to come into the mountain of the LORD, to the Mighty One of Israel.  
And the LORD shall cause his glorious voice to be heard, and shall show the lightning down of his arm, with the indignation of his anger, and with the flame of a devouring fire, with scattering, and tempest, and hailstones.  
For through the voice of the LORD shall the Assyrian be beaten down, who struck with a rod.  
And in every place where the grounded staff shall pass, which the LORD shall lay upon him, it shall be with tambourines and harps: and in battles of shaking will he fight with it.  
For Tophet is ordained of old; yes, for the king it is prepared; he has made it deep and large: the pile of it is fire and much wood; the breath of the LORD, like a stream of brimstone, ignites it.