Truly, truly, I tell you, anyone who does not enter the sheepfold through the door, but climbs in another way, is a thief and a robber.  
However, the one who enters through the door is the shepherd of the sheep.  
To him, the gatekeeper opens; the sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name and leads them out.  
When he has brought out all his own, he goes ahead of them, and the sheep follow him because they recognize his voice.  
They will not follow a stranger; instead, they will run away from him because they do not recognize the voice of strangers.  
Jesus spoke this parable to them, but they did not understand what he was saying.  
Then Jesus said to them again, "Truly, truly, I tell you, I am the door for the sheep."  
All who came before me were thieves and robbers, but the sheep did not listen to them.  
I am the door; if anyone enters through me, he will be saved and will go in and out and find pasture.  
The thief comes only to steal, kill, and destroy; I have come that they may have life and have it abundantly.  
I am the good shepherd; the good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep.  
The hired hand, who is not the shepherd and does not own the sheep, sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees; the wolf snatches them and scatters them.  
The hired hand flees because he is a hired hand and cares nothing for the sheep.  
I am the good shepherd; I know my sheep, and my sheep know me.  
Just as the Father knows me, I know the Father; and I lay down my life for the sheep.  
I have other sheep that are not of this fold; I must bring them also, and they will hear my voice, and there will be one flock and one shepherd.  
For this reason, the Father loves me, because I lay down my life so that I may take it up again.  
No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of my own accord. I have the authority to lay it down and the authority to take it up again. This command I received from my Father.  
There was again a division among the Jews because of these words.  
Many of them said, "He is demon-possessed and raving mad; why listen to him?"  
Others said, "These are not the sayings of a man possessed by a demon. Can a demon open the eyes of the blind?"  
It was in Jerusalem during the Feast of Dedication, and it was winter.  
Jesus was walking in the temple in Solomon's colonnade.  
The Jews gathered around him, saying, "How long will you keep us in suspense? If you are the Messiah, tell us plainly."  
Jesus answered them, "I told you, and you do not believe. The works I do in my Father's name testify about me.  
But you do not believe because you are not my sheep, as I told you.  
My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me.  
I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand.  
My Father, who has given them to me, is greater than all, and no one can snatch them out of my Father's hand.  
I and the Father are one."  
Again, the Jews picked up stones to stone him.  
Jesus answered them, "I have shown you many good works from the Father. For which of these do you stone me?"  
The Jews answered him, "We are not stoning you for a good work, but for blasphemy, because you, a mere man, claim to be God."  
Jesus answered them, "Is it not written in your Law, 'I said, you are gods'?  
If he called them 'gods,' to whom the word of God came—and Scripture cannot be set aside—  
what about the one whom the Father set apart as his very own and sent into the world? Why then do you accuse me of blasphemy because I said, 'I am God's Son'?  
Do not believe me unless I do the works of my Father.  
But if I do them, even though you do not believe me, believe the works, that you may know and understand that the Father is in me, and I in the Father."  
Again, they tried to seize him, but he escaped their grasp.  
Then he went back across the Jordan to the place where John had been baptizing in the early days; there he stayed.  
And many people came to him and said, "Though John never performed a sign, all that John said about this man was true."  
And in that place, many believed in Jesus.