This is the account of the generations of Adam. On the day that God created man, He made him in His own likeness;  
He created them male and female, blessed them, and called their name Adam on the day they were created.  
Adam lived for one hundred and thirty years and fathered a son in his own likeness, after his image; he named him Seth.  
After Seth was born, Adam lived for eight hundred years and had other sons and daughters.  
In total, Adam lived for nine hundred and thirty years, and then he died.  
Seth lived for one hundred and five years and became the father of Enos.  
After the birth of Enos, Seth lived for eight hundred and seven years and had other sons and daughters.  
Seth's total lifespan was nine hundred and twelve years, and then he died.  
Enos lived for ninety years and became the father of Cainan.  
After Cainan was born, Enos lived for eight hundred and fifteen years and had other sons and daughters.  
Enos lived a total of nine hundred and five years, and then he died.  
Cainan lived for seventy years and became the father of Mahalaleel.  
After Mahalaleel was born, Cainan lived for eight hundred and forty years and had other sons and daughters.  
Cainan's total lifespan was nine hundred and ten years, and then he died.  
Mahalaleel lived for sixty-five years and became the father of Jared.  
After Jared was born, Mahalaleel lived for eight hundred and thirty years and had other sons and daughters.  
Mahalaleel lived a total of eight hundred and ninety-five years, and then he died.  
Jared lived for one hundred and sixty-two years and became the father of Enoch.  
After Enoch was born, Jared lived for eight hundred years and had other sons and daughters.  
Jared's total lifespan was nine hundred and sixty-two years, and then he died.  
Enoch lived for sixty-five years and became the father of Methuselah.  
Enoch walked with God after the birth of Methuselah for three hundred years and had other sons and daughters.  
Enoch lived a total of three hundred and sixty-five years.  
Enoch walked with God; then he was no more, for God took him.  
Methuselah lived for one hundred and eighty-seven years and became the father of Lamech.  
After Lamech was born, Methuselah lived for seven hundred and eighty-two years and had other sons and daughters.  
Methuselah's total lifespan was nine hundred and sixty-nine years, and then he died.  
Lamech lived for one hundred and eighty-two years and became the father of a son.  
He named him Noah, saying, "This one will bring us comfort concerning our work and the toil of our hands, because of the ground that the LORD has cursed."  
After Noah was born, Lamech lived for five hundred and ninety-five years and had other sons and daughters.  
Lamech's total lifespan was seven hundred and seventy-seven years, and then he died.  
Noah was five hundred years old when he became the father of Shem, Ham, and Japheth.