At the end of the Sabbath, as dawn approached on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene and the other Mary came to visit the tomb.  
Suddenly, there was a great earthquake; for an angel of the Lord descended from heaven, rolled back the stone from the entrance, and sat on it.  
His appearance was like lightning, and his clothing was as white as snow.  
The guards trembled in fear of him and became like dead men.  
The angel spoke to the women, saying, "Do not be afraid; for I know that you seek Jesus, who was crucified.  
He is not here; for he has risen, just as he said. Come, see the place where the Lord lay.  
And go quickly, and tell his disciples that he has risen from the dead; and, behold, he goes before you into Galilee; there you will see him. I have told you."  
They hurried away from the tomb with fear and great joy, and ran to bring his disciples the news.  
As they were on their way to tell the disciples, Jesus met them and said, "Greetings!" They approached him, took hold of his feet, and worshipped him.  
Then Jesus said to them, "Do not be afraid; go and tell my brothers to go to Galilee, and there they will see me."  
While they were going, some of the guards went into the city and reported to the chief priests everything that had happened.  
When the chief priests had assembled with the elders and taken counsel, they gave a large sum of money to the soldiers,  
saying, "Tell them, 'His disciples came by night and stole him away while we were asleep.'  
And if this report reaches the governor's ears, we will persuade him and keep you out of trouble."  
So the soldiers took the money and did as they were instructed; and this story has been widely circulated among the Jews to this day.  
Then the eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain where Jesus had directed them.  
When they saw him, they worshipped him; but some doubted.  
Jesus came and spoke to them, saying, "All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me.  
Therefore, go and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit,  
teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you; and behold, I am with you always, to the end of the age. Amen."