And the LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying,
Speak to the children of Israel, and tell them, When any man has a running issue from his flesh, due to his issue he is unclean.
And this shall be his uncleanness regarding his issue: whether his flesh is running with his issue, or if it is stopped, it is still his uncleanness.
Every bed on which he lies who has the issue is unclean; and everything on which he sits shall be unclean.
And whoever touches his bed shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until evening.
And he who sits on anything that he sat on while having the issue shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until evening.
And he who touches the flesh of the one who has the issue shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until evening.
And if the one who has the issue spits on him who is clean, then he shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until evening.
And whatever saddle he rides upon while having the issue shall be unclean.
And whoever touches anything that was under him shall be unclean until evening; and he who carries any of those things shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until evening.
And whoever he touches who has the issue, and has not rinsed his hands in water, shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until evening.
And the earthen vessel that he touches which has the issue shall be broken; and every wooden vessel shall be rinsed in water.
And when he who has the issue is cleansed of his issue, he shall count for himself seven days for his cleansing, and wash his clothes, and bathe his flesh in running water, and he shall be clean.
And on the eighth day he shall take for himself two turtledoves, or two young pigeons, and come before the LORD to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and give them to the priest:
And the priest shall offer one for a sin offering, and the other for a burnt offering; and the priest shall make atonement for him before the LORD for his issue.
And if any man's seed of copulation goes out from him, then he shall wash all his flesh in water, and be unclean until evening.
And every garment, and every skin, on which is the seed of copulation, shall be washed with water, and be unclean until evening.
The woman also with whom a man lies with seed of copulation, they shall both bathe themselves in water, and be unclean until evening.
And if a woman has an issue, and her issue in her flesh is blood, she shall be set apart for seven days; and whoever touches her shall be unclean until evening.
And everything that she lies upon during her separation shall be unclean; everything that she sits upon shall be unclean.
And whoever touches her bed shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until evening.
And whoever touches anything that she sat upon shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until evening.
And if it is on her bed, or on anything whereon she sits, when he touches it, he shall be unclean until evening.
And if any man lies with her at all, and her menstrual flow is upon him, he shall be unclean for seven days; and all the bed on which he lies shall be unclean.
And if a woman has an issue of her blood for many days beyond the time of her separation, or if it runs beyond the time of her separation, all the days of her issue of uncleanness shall be as the days of her separation; she shall be unclean.
Every bed on which she lies all the days of her issue shall be to her as the bed of her separation; and whatever she sits upon shall be unclean, as the uncleanness of her separation.
And whoever touches those things shall be unclean, and shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until evening.
But if she is cleansed of her issue, then she shall count for herself seven days, and after that she shall be clean.
And on the eighth day she shall take for herself two turtledoves, or two young pigeons, and bring them to the priest, to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
And the priest shall offer one for a sin offering, and the other for a burnt offering; and the priest shall make atonement for her before the LORD for the issue of her uncleanness.
Thus shall you separate the children of Israel from their uncleanness, so that they do not die in their uncleanness when they defile my tabernacle that is among them.
This is the law for him who has an issue, and for him whose seed goes from him, and is defiled therewith;
And for her who is sick with her menstrual flow, and for him who has an issue, of the man, and of the woman, and for him who lies with her who is unclean.
