Truly, God is good to Israel, especially to those with a pure heart.
But as for me, my footing was nearly lost; my steps were on the verge of slipping.
For I was envious of the foolish when I observed the prosperity of the wicked.
For they experience no pain in death; their strength remains unshaken.
They do not face troubles like other people; they are not afflicted as others are.
Therefore, pride surrounds them like a chain; violence cloaks them like a garment.
Their eyes bulge with abundance; they possess more than their hearts could desire.
They are corrupt and speak wickedly about oppression; they speak arrogantly.
They set their mouths against the heavens, and their tongues roam the earth.
Therefore, his people return here; and they are filled with the waters of a full cup.
And they say, "How does God know? Is there knowledge in the Most High?"
Behold, these are the ungodly who prosper in the world; they amass wealth.
Truly, I have cleansed my heart in vain and washed my hands in innocence.
For all day long, I have been afflicted and disciplined every morning.
If I say, "I will speak this way," I would offend against the generation of your children.
When I tried to understand this, it was too painful for me;
Until I entered the sanctuary of God; then I understood their end.
Surely, you set them in slippery places; you cast them down to destruction.
How are they brought to desolation in an instant! They are utterly consumed by terrors.
Like a dream when one awakens; so, O Lord, when you arise, you will despise their image.
Thus, my heart was grieved, and I was troubled within.
So foolish was I, and ignorant; I was like a beast before you.
Nevertheless, I am continually with you; you hold me by my right hand.
You will guide me with your counsel, and afterward, receive me into glory.
Whom have I in heaven but you? And there is no one on earth I desire besides you.
My flesh and my heart may fail; but God is the strength of my heart and my portion forever.
For behold, those who are far from you will perish; you have destroyed all who are unfaithful to you.
But it is good for me to draw near to God; I have put my trust in the Lord God, that I may declare all your works.
