And you, son of man, take a sharp knife, take a barber's razor, and let it pass over your head and your beard; then take balances to weigh and divide the hair.  
You shall burn a third part in the midst of the city when the days of the siege are completed; and you shall take a third part and strike it with a knife, and a third part you shall scatter in the wind; and I will draw a sword after them.  
You shall also take a few in number and bind them in your skirts.  
Then take some of them again and cast them into the midst of the fire and burn them in the fire; for from them a fire shall come forth into all the house of Israel.  
Thus says the Lord GOD: This is Jerusalem; I have set her in the midst of the nations and countries that are around her.  
And she has changed my judgments into wickedness more than the nations, and my statutes more than the countries that are around her; for they have refused my judgments and my statutes; they have not walked in them.  
Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD: Because you have multiplied more than the nations that are around you and have not walked in my statutes, nor kept my judgments, nor acted according to the judgments of the nations that are around you;  
Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I, even I, am against you, and I will execute judgments in your midst in the sight of the nations.  
And I will do in you what I have not done, and whereunto I will not do any more the like, because of all your abominations.  
Therefore, fathers shall eat their sons in your midst, and sons shall eat their fathers; and I will execute judgments in you, and the whole remnant of you I will scatter into all the winds.  
As I live, says the Lord GOD: Surely, because you have defiled my sanctuary with all your detestable things and with all your abominations, I will also diminish you; my eye will not spare, nor will I have any pity.  
A third part of you shall die by pestilence, and with famine shall they be consumed in your midst; and a third part shall fall by the sword around you; and I will scatter a third part into all the winds, and I will draw a sword after them.  
Thus shall my anger be accomplished, and I will cause my fury to rest upon them, and I will be comforted; and they shall know that I, the LORD, have spoken it in my zeal when I have accomplished my fury in them.  
Moreover, I will make you a waste and a reproach among the nations that are around you, in the sight of all who pass by.  
So it shall be a reproach and a taunt, an instruction and an astonishment to the nations that are around you when I execute judgments in you in anger, fury, and furious rebukes. I, the LORD, have spoken it.  
When I send upon them the evil arrows of famine, which shall be for their destruction, and which I will send to destroy you; and I will increase the famine upon you and break your staff of bread:  
So I will send upon you famine and evil beasts, and they shall bereave you; and pestilence and blood shall pass through you; and I will bring the sword upon you. I, the LORD, have spoken it.