Now these are the judgments which you shall set before them.
If you buy a Hebrew servant, he shall serve for six years; and in the seventh, he shall go out free for nothing.
If he came in by himself, he shall go out by himself; if he was married, then his wife shall go out with him.
If his master has given him a wife, and she has borne him sons or daughters, the wife and her children shall belong to her master, and he shall go out by himself.
And if the servant shall plainly say, "I love my master, my wife, and my children; I will not go out free,"
Then his master shall bring him to the judges; he shall also bring him to the door or to the doorpost; and his master shall pierce his ear with an awl, and he shall serve him forever.
And if a man sells his daughter to be a maidservant, she shall not go out as the male servants do.
If she does not please her master, who has betrothed her to himself, then he shall let her be redeemed; he shall have no power to sell her to a foreign nation, seeing he has dealt deceitfully with her.
And if he has betrothed her to his son, he shall deal with her as with daughters.
If he takes another wife, her food, her clothing, and her marital rights shall not be diminished.
And if he does not do these three for her, then she shall go out free without payment.
He who strikes a man so that he dies shall surely be put to death.
And if a man did not lie in wait, but God delivered him into his hand, then I will appoint for you a place to which he shall flee.
But if a man comes presumptuously upon his neighbor to kill him with deceit, you shall take him from my altar, that he may die.
And he who strikes his father or his mother shall surely be put to death.
And he who steals a man and sells him, or if he is found in his possession, shall surely be put to death.
And he who curses his father or his mother shall surely be put to death.
And if men quarrel and one strikes another with a stone or with his fist, and he does not die but keeps his bed,
If he rises again and walks with his staff, then he who struck him shall be acquitted; only he shall pay for the loss of his time and shall ensure he is thoroughly healed.
And if a man strikes his servant or his maid with a rod and he dies under his hand, he shall surely be punished.
However, if he continues a day or two, he shall not be punished, for he is his property.
If men strive and hurt a woman with child so that her child departs from her, and yet no harm follows, he shall surely be punished according to what the woman's husband demands of him; and he shall pay as the judges determine.
And if any harm follows, then you shall give life for life,
Eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot,
Burn for burn, wound for wound, stripe for stripe.
And if a man strikes the eye of his servant or the eye of his maid so that it is destroyed, he shall let him go free for the sake of his eye.
And if he knocks out his manservant's tooth or his maidservant's tooth, he shall let him go free for the sake of his tooth.
If an ox gores a man or a woman so that they die, then the ox shall surely be stoned, and its flesh shall not be eaten; but the owner of the ox shall be acquitted.
But if the ox was known to push with its horn in the past, and it has been testified to its owner, and he has not kept it in, and it kills a man or a woman, the ox shall be stoned, and its owner shall also be put to death.
If a sum of money is laid upon him, then he shall give for the ransom of his life whatever is laid upon him.
Whether he has gored a son or has gored a daughter, according to this judgment shall it be done to him.
If the ox pushes a manservant or a maidservant, he shall give their master thirty shekels of silver, and the ox shall be stoned.
And if a man opens a pit, or if a man digs a pit and does not cover it, and an ox or a donkey falls in,
The owner of the pit shall make it good and give money to the owner of the animal; and the dead animal shall be his.
And if one man's ox hurts another's so that it dies, then they shall sell the live ox and divide the money for it; and the dead ox they shall also divide.
Or if it is known that the ox has a history of goring, and its owner has not kept it in, he shall surely pay ox for ox; and the dead animal shall be his own.
