And it came to pass, when the LORD was about to take Elijah up to heaven in a whirlwind, that Elijah went with Elisha from Gilgal.
And Elijah said to Elisha, "Stay here, I pray you; for the LORD has sent me to Bethel." But Elisha replied, "As the LORD lives, and as your soul lives, I will not leave you." So they went down to Bethel.
The sons of the prophets at Bethel came out to Elisha and said to him, "Do you know that the LORD will take away your master from you today?" He answered, "Yes, I know it; be quiet."
Elijah then said to him, "Elisha, stay here, I pray you; for the LORD has sent me to Jericho." Elisha replied, "As the LORD lives, and as your soul lives, I will not leave you." So they came to Jericho.
The sons of the prophets at Jericho approached Elisha and said, "Do you know that the LORD will take away your master from you today?" He answered, "Yes, I know it; be quiet."
Elijah said to him, "Stay here, I pray you; for the LORD has sent me to the Jordan." Elisha replied, "As the LORD lives, and as your soul lives, I will not leave you." And the two of them went on.
Fifty men from the sons of the prophets stood at a distance, watching them as they stood by the Jordan.
Elijah took his mantle, wrapped it together, and struck the waters, which parted to the right and to the left, so that the two of them crossed over on dry ground.
When they had crossed over, Elijah said to Elisha, "Ask what I shall do for you before I am taken away from you." Elisha replied, "I pray you, let a double portion of your spirit be upon me."
Elijah said, "You have asked a difficult thing; nevertheless, if you see me when I am taken from you, it shall be so for you; but if not, it shall not be so."
As they continued walking and talking, suddenly a chariot of fire and horses of fire appeared and separated the two of them; and Elijah went up by a whirlwind into heaven.
Elisha saw it and cried out, "My father, my father, the chariot of Israel and its horsemen!" And he saw him no more. He took hold of his own clothes and tore them in two pieces.
He picked up the mantle of Elijah that had fallen from him and went back, standing by the bank of the Jordan.
He took the mantle of Elijah that had fallen from him, struck the waters, and said, "Where is the LORD God of Elijah?" When he struck the waters, they parted to the right and to the left, and Elisha crossed over.
When the sons of the prophets who were at Jericho saw him, they said, "The spirit of Elijah rests on Elisha." They came to meet him and bowed to the ground before him.
They said to him, "Look, there are with your servants fifty strong men; let them go, we pray you, and search for your master, lest perhaps the Spirit of the LORD has taken him up and cast him upon some mountain or into some valley." But he said, "You shall not send anyone."
When they urged him until he was ashamed, he said, "Send." So they sent fifty men, and they searched for three days but did not find him.
When they returned to him (for he had stayed at Jericho), he said to them, "Did I not tell you, 'Do not go'?"
The men of the city said to Elisha, "Please notice, the situation of this city is pleasant, as my lord sees; but the water is bad, and the ground is barren."
He said, "Bring me a new bowl and put salt in it." So they brought it to him.
He went to the spring of the waters, threw the salt in there, and said, "Thus says the LORD: I have healed these waters; there shall be no more death or barrenness from them."
So the waters were healed to this day, according to the word of Elisha that he spoke.
He went up from there to Bethel; and as he was going up the road, some little children came out of the city and mocked him, saying, "Get out of here, you bald head! Get out of here, you bald head!"
He turned around, looked at them, and cursed them in the name of the LORD. Then two bears came out of the woods and mauled forty-two of the children.
From there he went to Mount Carmel, and from there he returned to Samaria.
