And Jesus, being filled with the Holy Spirit, returned from the Jordan and was led by the Spirit into the wilderness.  
For forty days, he was tempted by the devil. During those days, he ate nothing, and when they were over, he was hungry.  
The devil said to him, "If you are the Son of God, command this stone to become bread."  
Jesus answered him, "It is written, 'Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word of God.'"  
The devil took him up to a high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time.  
The devil said to him, "All this power I will give you, and the glory of them, for it has been delivered to me, and I can give it to whomever I wish.  
If you will worship me, all will be yours."  
Jesus answered him, "Get behind me, Satan! For it is written, 'You shall worship the Lord your God, and Him only shall you serve.'"  
He brought him to Jerusalem, set him on the pinnacle of the temple, and said to him, "If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down from here.  
For it is written, 'He shall give His angels charge over you, to keep you.'  
And in their hands, they shall bear you up, lest you dash your foot against a stone."  
Jesus answered him, "It is said, 'You shall not tempt the Lord your God.'"  
When the devil had finished all the temptation, he departed from him for a time.  
Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit to Galilee, and news about him spread throughout the surrounding region.  
He taught in their synagogues and was praised by everyone.  
He came to Nazareth, where he had been raised, and as was his custom, he went into the synagogue on the Sabbath and stood up to read.  
The scroll of the prophet Isaiah was handed to him, and when he opened it, he found the place where it is written,  
"The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he has anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor; he has sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to proclaim freedom to the captives, and recovery of sight to the blind, to set at liberty those who are oppressed,  
To proclaim the acceptable year of the Lord."  
He closed the scroll, gave it back to the attendant, and sat down. The eyes of everyone in the synagogue were fixed on him.  
He began to say to them, "Today this scripture is fulfilled in your hearing."  
All spoke well of him and were amazed at the gracious words that came from his lips. They said, "Isn't this Joseph's son?"  
He said to them, "Surely you will quote this proverb to me: 'Physician, heal yourself! Do here in your hometown what we have heard that you did in Capernaum.'"  
He replied, "Truly I tell you, no prophet is accepted in his own hometown.  
But I tell you the truth, there were many widows in Israel in the days of Elijah, when the sky was shut up for three and a half years, and there was a severe famine throughout the land;  
Yet Elijah was not sent to any of them, but to a widow in Zarephath in the region of Sidon.  
And there were many in Israel with leprosy in the time of Elisha the prophet, yet not one of them was cleansed—only Naaman the Syrian."  
All the people in the synagogue were furious when they heard this.  
They got up, drove him out of the town, and took him to the brow of the hill on which their town was built, in order to throw him off the cliff.  
But he walked right through the crowd and went on his way.  
He went down to Capernaum, a town in Galilee, and on the Sabbath, he taught the people.  
They were amazed at his teaching because his message had authority.  
In the synagogue, there was a man possessed by a demon, an impure spirit. He cried out at the top of his voice,  
"Go away! What do you want with us, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are—the Holy One of God!"  
Jesus rebuked him, saying, "Be quiet! Come out of him!" Then the demon threw the man down before them all and came out without injuring him.  
All the people were amazed and said to each other, "What words these are! With authority and power, he gives orders to impure spirits, and they come out!"  
And the news about him spread throughout the surrounding area.  
He left the synagogue and went to Simon's home. Now Simon's mother-in-law was suffering from a high fever, and they asked Jesus to help her.  
He bent over her and rebuked the fever, and it left her. She got up at once and began to wait on them.  
At sunset, the people brought to Jesus all who had various kinds of sickness, and laying his hands on each one, he healed them.  
Demons came out of many people, shouting, "You are the Son of God!" But he rebuked them and would not allow them to speak, because they knew he was the Messiah.  
At daybreak, Jesus went out to a solitary place. The people were looking for him and when they came to where he was, they tried to keep him from leaving them.  
But he said, "I must proclaim the good news of the kingdom of God to the other towns also, because that is why I was sent."  
And he kept on preaching in the synagogues of Judea.