The priests, the Levites, and all the tribe of Levi shall have no part or inheritance with Israel; they shall eat the offerings made by fire to the LORD and receive His inheritance.
Therefore, they shall have no inheritance among their brethren, for the LORD is their inheritance, as He has said to them.
This shall be the priest's due from the people, from those who offer a sacrifice, whether it be an ox or a sheep; they shall give the priest the shoulder, the two cheeks, and the maw.
You shall also give him the firstfruits of your corn, your wine, your oil, and the first of the fleece of your sheep.
For the LORD your God has chosen him from all your tribes to stand and minister in the name of the LORD, he and his sons forever.
If a Levite comes from any of your gates in all Israel, where he has sojourned, and comes with all the desire of his mind to the place which the LORD shall choose;
Then he shall minister in the name of the LORD his God, as all his brethren the Levites do, who stand there before the LORD.
They shall have equal portions to eat, in addition to what comes from the sale of his patrimony.
When you enter the land which the LORD your God is giving you, you shall not learn to do after the abominations of those nations.
There shall not be found among you anyone who makes his son or daughter pass through the fire, or who uses divination, or is an observer of times, or an enchanter, or a witch.
Nor a charmer, nor a consulter with familiar spirits, nor a wizard, nor a necromancer.
For all who do these things are an abomination to the LORD; and because of these abominations, the LORD your God drives them out from before you.
You shall be blameless before the LORD your God.
For these nations, which you shall possess, listened to observers of times and diviners; but as for you, the LORD your God has not permitted you to do so.
The LORD your God will raise up for you a Prophet from among your brethren, like me; to him you shall listen.
According to all that you desired of the LORD your God at Horeb on the day of the assembly, saying, "Let me not hear again the voice of the LORD my God, nor let me see this great fire anymore, lest I die."
And the LORD said to me, "They have spoken well that which they have spoken."
I will raise up a Prophet from among their brethren, like you, and will put My words in His mouth; and He shall speak to them all that I command Him.
It shall come to pass that whoever will not listen to My words which He speaks in My name, I will require it of him.
But the prophet who presumes to speak a word in My name, which I have not commanded him to speak, or who speaks in the name of other gods, that prophet shall die.
If you say in your heart, "How shall we know the word which the LORD has not spoken?"
When a prophet speaks in the name of the LORD, if the thing does not follow or come to pass, that is the thing which the LORD has not spoken; the prophet has spoken it presumptuously; you shall not be afraid of him.
