The words of Agur, son of Jakeh, the prophecy: the man spoke to Ithiel, to Ithiel and Ucal.  
Surely, I am more foolish than any man and lack the understanding of a human.  
I have neither learned wisdom nor possess the knowledge of the holy.  
Who has ascended to heaven or descended? Who has gathered the wind in his fists? Who has wrapped the waters in a garment? Who has established all the ends of the earth? What is his name, and what is his son's name, if you can tell?  
Every word of God is flawless; he is a shield to those who take refuge in him.  
Do not add to his words, or he will rebuke you, and you will be found a liar.  
Two things I ask of you; do not deny me them before I die:  
Remove far from me falsehood and lies; give me neither poverty nor riches; feed me with the food that is my portion:  
Lest I be full and deny you, and say, "Who is the LORD?" or lest I be poor and steal, and profane the name of my God.  
Do not accuse a servant before his master, or he will curse you, and you will be found guilty.  
There is a generation that curses their father and does not bless their mother.  
There is a generation that is pure in their own eyes, yet is not cleansed from their filth.  
There is a generation, oh, how lofty are their eyes! Their eyelids are lifted high.  
There is a generation whose teeth are like swords, and their jaw teeth like knives, to devour the poor from the earth and the needy from among men.  
The leech has two daughters, crying, "Give, give." There are three things that are never satisfied; yes, four things that do not say, "It is enough":  
The grave, the barren womb, the earth that is not filled with water, and the fire that says, "It is enough."  
The eye that mocks his father and despises to obey his mother, the ravens of the valley shall pick it out, and the young eagles shall eat it.  
There are three things that are too wonderful for me; yes, four that I do not understand:  
The way of an eagle in the air, the way of a serpent on a rock, the way of a ship in the midst of the sea, and the way of a man with a maiden.  
Such is the way of an adulterous woman; she eats and wipes her mouth and says, "I have done no wrong."  
For three things the earth is disquieted, and for four it cannot bear:  
For a servant when he reigns, and a fool when he is full of food;  
For an odious woman when she is married, and a handmaid who inherits from her mistress.  
There are four things that are small on the earth, but they are exceedingly wise:  
The ants are a people not strong, yet they prepare their food in the summer;  
The conies are but a feeble folk, yet they make their homes in the rocks;  
The locusts have no king, yet they all go out in bands;  
The spider takes hold with her hands and is in kings' palaces.  
There are three things that go well; yes, four are lovely in their going:  
A lion, which is strongest among beasts and does not turn away from any;  
A greyhound, a male goat, and a king against whom there is no rising up.  
If you have acted foolishly in exalting yourself, or if you have thought evil, lay your hand upon your mouth.  
Surely, the churning of milk produces butter, and the wringing of the nose produces blood; so the forcing of wrath produces strife.