I saw in the right hand of the one seated on the throne a book written on both the inside and the back, sealed with seven seals.
I noticed a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, "Who is worthy to open the book and break its seals?"
No one in heaven, on earth, or under the earth was able to open the book or even look at it.
I wept greatly because no one was found worthy to open and read the book or even look at it.
One of the elders said to me, "Do not weep: behold, the Lion of the tribe of Judah, the Root of David, has triumphed to open the book and break its seven seals."
I looked, and in the midst of the throne and the four living creatures, and in the midst of the elders, stood a Lamb that appeared to have been slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven Spirits of God sent out into all the earth.
He came and took the book from the right hand of the one who sat on the throne.
When he had taken the book, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb, each holding harps and golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints.
They sang a new song, saying, "You are worthy to take the book and open its seals, for you were slain and have redeemed us to God by your blood from every tribe, language, people, and nation;
And you have made us kings and priests to our God, and we shall reign on the earth."
I looked and heard the voice of many angels around the throne, the living creatures, and the elders; their number was ten thousand times ten thousand, and thousands of thousands.
They were saying with a loud voice, "Worthy is the Lamb who was slain to receive power, riches, wisdom, strength, honor, glory, and blessing."
Every creature in heaven, on earth, under the earth, and in the sea, and all that are in them, I heard saying, "Blessing, honor, glory, and power be to him who sits on the throne, and to the Lamb forever and ever."
The four living creatures said, "Amen." And the twenty-four elders fell down and worshiped him who lives forever and ever.
