And it came to pass in the same year, at the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah, king of Judah, in the fourth year and the fifth month, that Hananiah, the son of Azur, a prophet from Gibeon, spoke to me in the house of the LORD, in the presence of the priests and all the people, saying,  
Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: I have broken the yoke of the king of Babylon.  
Within two full years, I will bring back to this place all the vessels of the LORD's house that Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, took from here and carried to Babylon.  
I will also bring back to this place Jeconiah, the son of Jehoiakim, king of Judah, along with all the captives of Judah who went to Babylon, says the LORD; for I will break the yoke of the king of Babylon.  
Then the prophet Jeremiah said to the prophet Hananiah, in the presence of the priests and all the people standing in the house of the LORD,  
Even the prophet Jeremiah said, Amen! May the LORD do so! May the LORD fulfill your words which you have prophesied, to bring back the vessels of the LORD's house and all that was taken captive from Babylon to this place.  
Nevertheless, hear now this word that I speak in your ears and in the ears of all the people:  
The prophets who were before me and before you prophesied against many countries and great kingdoms, concerning war, evil, and pestilence.  
The prophet who prophesies peace, when the word of the prophet comes to pass, then it will be known that the LORD has truly sent him.  
Then Hananiah the prophet took the yoke off the neck of the prophet Jeremiah and broke it.  
And Hananiah spoke in the presence of all the people, saying, Thus says the LORD: Even so, I will break the yoke of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, from the neck of all nations within two full years. And the prophet Jeremiah went on his way.  
Then the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah the prophet after Hananiah had broken the yoke from off Jeremiah's neck, saying,  
Go and tell Hananiah, saying, Thus says the LORD: You have broken wooden yokes, but you shall make for them yokes of iron.  
For thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: I have put a yoke of iron upon the neck of all these nations, so that they may serve Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon; and they shall serve him. I have also given him the beasts of the field.  
Then the prophet Jeremiah said to Hananiah the prophet, Hear now, Hananiah: The LORD has not sent you, but you are causing this people to trust in a lie.  
Therefore, thus says the LORD: Behold, I will cast you from the face of the earth; this year you shall die, because you have taught rebellion against the LORD.  
So Hananiah the prophet died in the same year, in the seventh month.