Woe to those who plot iniquity and commit evil while lying in bed! When morning light breaks, they carry out their plans, for they have the power to do so.
They covet fields and seize them through violence; they take houses and dispossess their owners, oppressing a man and his home, even a man and his inheritance.
Therefore, thus says the LORD: Behold, I am devising disaster against this family, from which you will not be able to escape; you will not walk proudly, for this time is filled with evil.
On that day, one will take up a proverb against you and mourn with a sorrowful lament, saying, "We are utterly ruined; he has changed the inheritance of my people; how has he taken it from me! He has divided our fields."
Therefore, you will have no one to cast a lot in the assembly of the LORD.
"Do not prophesy," they say to those who prophesy; "they shall not prophesy to them, so they will not be shamed."
O you who are called the house of Jacob, is the spirit of the LORD restricted? Are these His actions? Do not my words do good to those who walk uprightly?
Recently, my people have risen up as an enemy: you strip off the robe from those who pass by securely, as if they were men returning from battle.
You have cast out the women of my people from their pleasant homes; you have taken away my glory from their children forever.
Arise and depart; for this is not your resting place: it is polluted and will destroy you, bringing about a grievous destruction.
If a man walks in the spirit of falsehood and lies, saying, "I will prophesy to you of wine and strong drink," he will indeed be the prophet of this people.
I will surely gather all of you, O Jacob; I will surely assemble the remnant of Israel; I will bring them together like sheep in Bozrah, like a flock in the midst of their fold: they will make a great noise because of the multitude of men.
The breaker has come up before them; they have broken through and passed through the gate, and have gone out by it: their king will pass before them, and the LORD will lead them.
