And there was a loud outcry from the people and their wives against their fellow Jews.
For some said, "We, our sons, and our daughters are numerous; therefore, we must obtain grain for them so that we may eat and survive."
Others said, "We have mortgaged our fields, vineyards, and homes to buy grain due to the famine."
There were also those who said, "We have borrowed money for the king's tax, putting our fields and vineyards as collateral."
Yet now our flesh is the same as the flesh of our brothers, our children as their children. Behold, we are forcing our sons and daughters into servitude, and some of our daughters are already in bondage. We cannot redeem them, for others possess our fields and vineyards.
I was very angry when I heard their outcry and these words.
Then I consulted with myself, and I rebuked the nobles and the officials, saying to them, "You are exacting usury from each of your brothers." I gathered a large assembly against them.
I said to them, "We have redeemed our fellow Jews who were sold to the nations, and will you sell your brothers? Or will they be sold to us?" They remained silent and had no response.
I also said, "What you are doing is not right. Should you not walk in the fear of our God to avoid the reproach of the nations, our enemies?"
I, along with my brothers and my servants, could have demanded money and grain from them; I urge you to stop this usury.
I ask you to restore to them today their fields, vineyards, olive groves, and homes, along with the interest on the money, grain, wine, and oil that you have exacted from them.
They replied, "We will restore everything and require nothing from them; we will do as you say." Then I called the priests and made them take an oath to act according to this promise.
I also shook out the folds of my robe and said, "So may God shake out every man from his house and from his labor who does not keep this promise; may he be shaken out and emptied." And all the congregation said, "Amen," and praised the LORD. The people acted according to this promise.
Furthermore, from the time I was appointed as their governor in the land of Judah, from the twentieth year until the thirty-second year of King Artaxerxes, a total of twelve years, neither I nor my brothers consumed the governor's provisions.
But the previous governors who were before me burdened the people, taking bread and wine from them, in addition to forty shekels of silver; even their servants ruled over the people. But I did not do so because of the fear of God.
Indeed, I continued the work on this wall, and we did not buy any land; all my servants were gathered for the work.
Moreover, there were one hundred and fifty Jews and officials at my table, besides those who came to us from the surrounding nations.
Now what was prepared for me daily included one ox and six choice sheep; also, birds were prepared for me, and every ten days an abundance of all kinds of wine. Yet, despite all this, I did not demand the governor's provisions, because the burden was heavy on this people.
Remember me, my God, for good, according to all that I have done for this people.
