And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Make two trumpets of silver; they shall be made from a single piece: you will use them to call the assembly and for the journeying of the camps.
When they blow the trumpets, all the assembly shall gather at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.
If they blow only one trumpet, then the princes, who are the heads of the thousands of Israel, shall gather to you.
When you blow an alarm, the camps on the east side shall advance.
When you blow an alarm a second time, the camps on the south side shall begin their journey; they shall blow an alarm for their journeys.
However, when the congregation is to be gathered together, you shall blow, but you shall not sound an alarm.
The sons of Aaron, the priests, shall blow the trumpets; this shall be a lasting ordinance for you throughout your generations.
If you go to war in your land against the enemy who oppresses you, you shall blow an alarm with the trumpets; and you will be remembered before the LORD your God, and you will be saved from your enemies.
On the day of your gladness, during your solemn days, and at the beginning of your months, you shall blow the trumpets over your burnt offerings and over the sacrifices of your peace offerings; this will serve as a memorial before your God: I am the LORD your God.
It came to pass on the twentieth day of the second month in the second year that the cloud was lifted from the tabernacle of the testimony.
The children of Israel set out from the wilderness of Sinai, and the cloud rested in the wilderness of Paran.
They began their journey according to the command of the LORD through Moses.
First went the standard of the camp of the children of Judah according to their armies, and over his host was Nahshon the son of Amminadab.
Over the host of the tribe of the children of Issachar was Nethaneel the son of Zuar.
Over the host of the tribe of the children of Zebulun was Eliab the son of Helon.
The tabernacle was taken down, and the sons of Gershon and the sons of Merari set out, carrying the tabernacle.
The standard of the camp of Reuben set out according to their armies, and over his host was Elizur the son of Shedeur.
Over the host of the tribe of the children of Simeon was Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.
Over the host of the tribe of the children of Gad was Eliasaph the son of Deuel.
The Kohathites set out, carrying the sanctuary, while the others set up the tabernacle as they arrived.
The standard of the camp of the children of Ephraim set out according to their armies, and over his host was Elishama the son of Ammihud.
Over the host of the tribe of the children of Manasseh was Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.
Over the host of the tribe of the children of Benjamin was Abidan the son of Gideoni.
The standard of the camp of the children of Dan set out, serving as the rear guard of all the camps; over his host was Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.
Over the host of the tribe of the children of Asher was Pagiel the son of Ocran.
Over the host of the tribe of the children of Naphtali was Ahira the son of Enan.
Thus were the journeyings of the children of Israel according to their armies as they set out.
Moses said to Hobab, the son of Raguel the Midianite, Moses' father-in-law, "We are journeying to the place of which the LORD said, 'I will give it to you.' Come with us, and we will treat you well, for the LORD has spoken good concerning Israel."
He replied, "I will not go; I will return to my own land and to my relatives."
Moses said, "Please do not leave us, for you know how we are to camp in the wilderness, and you can be our eyes."
If you go with us, whatever good the LORD does for us, we will do the same for you.
They departed from the mount of the LORD, traveling for three days; the ark of the covenant of the LORD went before them during the three days' journey to find a resting place for them.
The cloud of the LORD was upon them by day as they left the camp.
When the ark set out, Moses said, "Rise up, LORD, and let your enemies be scattered; let those who hate you flee before you."
When it rested, he said, "Return, O LORD, to the many thousands of Israel."
