These are the journeys of the children of Israel, who left the land of Egypt with their armies under the leadership of Moses and Aaron.  
Moses documented their departures according to their journeys as commanded by the LORD; these are their journeys based on their exits.  
They departed from Rameses in the first month, on the fifteenth day; the day after Passover, the children of Israel left with great boldness in the sight of all the Egyptians.  
The Egyptians buried all their firstborn, whom the LORD had struck down among them; the LORD also executed judgments against their gods.  
The children of Israel moved from Rameses and camped in Succoth.  
They left Succoth and camped in Etham, located at the edge of the wilderness.  
They departed from Etham and turned back to Pihahiroth, which is before Baalzephon, and they camped before Migdol.  
They left Pihahiroth and passed through the midst of the sea into the wilderness, traveling for three days in the wilderness of Etham, and camped at Marah.  
They moved from Marah and arrived at Elim, where there were twelve springs of water and seventy palm trees; they camped there.  
They departed from Elim and camped by the Red Sea.  
They left the Red Sea and camped in the wilderness of Sin.  
They journeyed out of the wilderness of Sin and camped in Dophkah.  
They departed from Dophkah and camped in Alush.  
They moved from Alush and camped at Rephidim, where there was no water for the people to drink.  
They left Rephidim and camped in the wilderness of Sinai.  
They moved from the desert of Sinai and camped at Kibrothhattaavah.  
They departed from Kibrothhattaavah and camped at Hazeroth.  
They left Hazeroth and camped in Rithmah.  
They departed from Rithmah and camped at Rimmonparez.  
They left Rimmonparez and camped in Libnah.  
They moved from Libnah and camped at Rissah.  
They journeyed from Rissah and camped in Kehelathah.  
They went from Kehelathah and camped at Mount Shapher.  
They departed from Mount Shapher and camped in Haradah.  
They moved from Haradah and camped in Makheloth.  
They left Makheloth and camped at Tahath.  
They departed from Tahath and camped at Tarah.  
They moved from Tarah and camped in Mithcah.  
They went from Mithcah and camped in Hashmonah.  
They departed from Hashmonah and camped at Moseroth.  
They left Moseroth and camped in Benejaakan.  
They moved from Benejaakan and camped at Horhagidgad.  
They went from Horhagidgad and camped in Jotbathah.  
They departed from Jotbathah and camped at Ebronah.  
They left Ebronah and camped at Eziongaber.  
They moved from Eziongaber and camped in the wilderness of Zin, which is Kadesh.  
They departed from Kadesh and camped at Mount Hor, on the edge of the land of Edom.  
Aaron the priest ascended Mount Hor at the command of the LORD and died there in the fortieth year after the children of Israel left Egypt, on the first day of the fifth month.  
Aaron was one hundred and twenty-three years old when he died on Mount Hor.  
King Arad the Canaanite, who lived in the southern part of Canaan, heard of the arrival of the children of Israel.  
They departed from Mount Hor and camped in Zalmonah.  
They left Zalmonah and camped in Punon.  
They departed from Punon and camped in Oboth.  
They moved from Oboth and camped in Ijeabarim, on the border of Moab.  
They departed from Iim and camped in Dibongad.  
They moved from Dibongad and camped in Almondiblathaim.  
They departed from Almondiblathaim and camped in the mountains of Abarim, before Nebo.  
They left the mountains of Abarim and camped in the plains of Moab, near the Jordan, close to Jericho.  
They camped by the Jordan, from Bethjesimoth to Abelshittim in the plains of Moab.  
The LORD spoke to Moses in the plains of Moab, near the Jordan, close to Jericho, saying,  
"Speak to the children of Israel and tell them, when you have crossed over the Jordan into the land of Canaan;  
you shall drive out all the inhabitants of the land before you, destroy all their idols, and demolish all their high places.  
You shall dispossess the inhabitants of the land and dwell there, for I have given you the land to possess.  
You shall divide the land by lot for an inheritance among your families; to the larger groups, you shall give a larger inheritance, and to the smaller groups, you shall give a smaller inheritance. Each man's inheritance shall be in the place where his lot falls; according to the tribes of your fathers, you shall inherit.  
But if you do not drive out the inhabitants of the land before you, those whom you allow to remain will become thorns in your sides and pricks in your eyes, and they will trouble you in the land where you dwell.  
Furthermore, it shall come to pass that I will do to you as I intended to do to them."