And I turned, lifted up my eyes, and looked; behold, four chariots came out from between two mountains, and the mountains were mountains of brass.  
In the first chariot were red horses, and in the second chariot were black horses.  
In the third chariot were white horses, and in the fourth chariot were grisled and bay horses.  
Then I answered and said to the angel who talked with me, "What are these, my lord?"  
The angel answered and said to me, "These are the four spirits of the heavens, which go forth from standing before the LORD of all the earth."  
The black horses that are therein go forth into the north country, and the white follow after them; the grisled go forth toward the south country.  
The bay horses went forth and sought to walk to and fro through the earth; he said, "Get you hence, walk to and fro through the earth." So they walked to and fro through the earth.  
Then he cried out to me and spoke, saying, "Behold, those that go toward the north country have quieted my spirit in the north country."  
The word of the LORD came to me, saying,  
"Take from the captivity, even from Heldai, Tobijah, and Jedaiah, who have come from Babylon; come the same day, and go into the house of Josiah the son of Zephaniah.  
Then take silver and gold, make crowns, and set them upon the head of Joshua the son of Josedech, the high priest.  
Speak to him, saying, 'Thus speaks the LORD of hosts: Behold, the man whose name is The BRANCH; he shall grow up out of his place and build the temple of the LORD.  
He shall build the temple of the LORD; he shall bear the glory, sit and rule upon his throne; he shall be a priest upon his throne, and the counsel of peace shall be between them both.'  
The crowns shall be for Helem, Tobijah, Jedaiah, and Hen the son of Zephaniah, as a memorial in the temple of the LORD.  
Those who are far off shall come and build in the temple of the LORD, and you shall know that the LORD of hosts has sent me to you. This shall come to pass if you will diligently obey the voice of the LORD your God."