The men of Ephraim gathered together and went northward, saying to Jephthah, "Why did you go to fight against the children of Ammon without calling us to join you? We will burn your house down over you."  
Jephthah replied, "I and my people were in serious conflict with the children of Ammon, and when I called for your help, you did not rescue me from their hands."  
"When I realized that you would not help me, I took my life into my own hands and went to battle against the children of Ammon, and the LORD delivered them into my hands. Why then have you come to fight against me today?"  
Jephthah then gathered all the men of Gilead and fought against Ephraim. The men of Gilead defeated Ephraim because they had said, "You Gileadites are fugitives from Ephraim among the Ephraimites and Manassites."  
The Gileadites seized the fords of the Jordan before the Ephraimites. When the escaped Ephraimites said, "Let me cross over," the men of Gilead asked him, "Are you an Ephraimite?" If he replied, "No,"  
they said to him, "Then say 'Shibboleth.'" He answered, "Sibboleth," for he could not pronounce it correctly. They seized him and killed him at the fords of the Jordan, and at that time, forty-two thousand Ephraimites fell.  
Jephthah judged Israel for six years. Then Jephthah the Gileadite died and was buried in one of the cities of Gilead.  
After him, Ibzan of Bethlehem judged Israel.  
He had thirty sons and thirty daughters, whom he sent abroad, and he brought in thirty daughters from abroad for his sons. He judged Israel for seven years.  
Then Ibzan died and was buried at Bethlehem.  
After him, Elon, a Zebulonite, judged Israel for ten years.  
Elon the Zebulonite died and was buried in Aijalon in the territory of Zebulun.  
After him, Abdon the son of Hillel, a Pirathonite, judged Israel.  
He had forty sons and thirty grandsons who rode on seventy donkeys, and he judged Israel for eight years.  
Abdon the son of Hillel the Pirathonite died and was buried in Pirathon in the land of Ephraim, in the hill country of the Amalekites.