O foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you, that you should not obey the truth, before whose eyes Jesus Christ has been clearly portrayed, crucified among you?
This only would I learn from you: Did you receive the Spirit by the works of the law, or by the hearing of faith?
Are you so foolish? Having begun in the Spirit, are you now made perfect by the flesh?
Have you suffered so many things in vain? If it is indeed in vain.
He therefore who ministers to you the Spirit and works miracles among you, does he do it by the works of the law, or by the hearing of faith?
Just as Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him for righteousness.
Know therefore that those who are of faith, the same are the children of Abraham.
And the scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles through faith, preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham, saying, "In you shall all nations be blessed."
So then those who are of faith are blessed with faithful Abraham.
For as many as are of the works of the law are under a curse: for it is written, "Cursed is everyone who does not continue in all things which are written in the book of the law to do them."
But that no one is justified by the law in the sight of God is evident: for, "The just shall live by faith."
And the law is not of faith: but, "The man who does them shall live by them."
Christ has redeemed us from the curse of the law, having become a curse for us: for it is written, "Cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree."
That the blessing of Abraham might come upon the Gentiles through Jesus Christ; that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith.
Brethren, I speak in human terms; though it is but a man's covenant, yet if it is confirmed, no one annuls or adds to it.
Now to Abraham and his seed were the promises made. He does not say, "And to seeds," as of many, but as of one, "And to your seed," which is Christ.
And this I say, that the covenant that was confirmed before by God in Christ, the law, which was four hundred and thirty years later, cannot annul it, so as to make the promise of no effect.
For if the inheritance is of the law, it is no longer of promise; but God gave it to Abraham by promise.
What purpose then does the law serve? It was added because of transgressions, until the seed should come to whom the promise was made; and it was ordained by angels in the hand of a mediator.
Now a mediator does not mediate for one only, but God is one.
Is the law then against the promises of God? Certainly not: for if there had been a law given which could have given life, truly righteousness would have been by the law.
But the scripture has confined all under sin, that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe.
But before faith came, we were kept under the law, shut up for the faith which would afterward be revealed.
Therefore the law was our tutor to bring us to Christ, that we might be justified by faith.
But after faith has come, we are no longer under a tutor.
For you are all children of God through faith in Christ Jesus.
For as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ.
There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free, there is neither male nor female: for you are all one in Christ Jesus.
And if you are Christ's, then you are Abraham's seed, and heirs according to the promise.
