If a prophet or a dreamer of dreams arises among you and gives you a sign or a wonder,
And the sign or wonder comes to pass, and he says to you, "Let us follow other gods, which you have not known, and let us serve them,"
You shall not listen to the words of that prophet or dreamer of dreams, for the LORD your God is testing you to know whether you love the LORD your God with all your heart and with all your soul.
You shall walk after the LORD your God, fear Him, keep His commandments, obey His voice, serve Him, and hold fast to Him.
That prophet or dreamer of dreams shall be put to death because he has spoken to turn you away from the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt and redeemed you from the house of bondage, to lead you astray from the way that the LORD your God commanded you to walk. Thus, you shall purge the evil from your midst.
If your brother, the son of your mother, or your son, or your daughter, or the wife of your bosom, or your friend, who is as your own soul, secretly entices you, saying, "Let us go and serve other gods, which you have not known, you nor your fathers,"
Namely, the gods of the peoples around you, near to you or far from you, from one end of the earth to the other,
You shall not consent to him or listen to him; neither shall your eye pity him, nor shall you spare him, nor shall you conceal him.
But you shall surely kill him; your hand shall be the first against him to put him to death, and afterward, the hand of all the people.
You shall stone him with stones until he dies, because he has sought to turn you away from the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage.
All Israel shall hear and fear, and shall no longer do any such wickedness among you.
If you hear it said in one of your cities, which the LORD your God has given you to dwell in,
That certain men, the children of Belial, have gone out from among you and have drawn away the inhabitants of their city, saying, "Let us go and serve other gods, which you have not known,"
Then you shall inquire, search, and ask diligently; and behold, if it is true and certain that such abomination has been committed among you,
You shall surely strike the inhabitants of that city with the edge of the sword, destroying it utterly, and all that is in it, and its livestock, with the edge of the sword.
You shall gather all its spoil into the midst of the street and burn the city and all its spoil with fire, completely, for the LORD your God; it shall be a heap forever; it shall not be rebuilt.
Nothing cursed shall cling to your hand, so that the LORD may turn from the fierceness of His anger and show you mercy, have compassion on you, and multiply you, as He swore to your fathers;
When you listen to the voice of the LORD your God, to keep all His commandments that I command you today, to do what is right in the eyes of the LORD your God.
