And Jacob lifted his eyes and looked; behold, Esau was coming, accompanied by four hundred men. He divided the children among Leah, Rachel, and the two handmaids.
He placed the handmaids and their children in front, Leah and her children behind them, and Rachel and Joseph at the rear.
He went ahead of them, bowing to the ground seven times until he approached his brother.
Esau ran to meet him, embraced him, fell on his neck, and kissed him; they both wept.
He lifted his eyes and saw the women and children, asking, "Who are these with you?" Jacob replied, "The children whom God has graciously given your servant."
The handmaidens approached with their children and bowed down.
Leah and her children also came near and bowed down; then Joseph and Rachel approached and bowed as well.
Esau asked, "What do you mean by all this company that I met?" Jacob answered, "These are to find favor in the sight of my lord."
Esau replied, "I have enough, my brother; keep what you have for yourself."
Jacob insisted, "No, please, if I have found favor in your sight, accept my gift from my hand; for I have seen your face as though I had seen the face of God, and you were pleased with me."
"Please take my blessing that has been brought to you, for God has dealt graciously with me, and I have enough." He urged him, and Esau accepted it.
He said, "Let us journey on, and I will go ahead of you."
Jacob responded, "My lord knows that the children are tender, and the flocks and herds with young are with me; if they are driven hard for one day, all the flock will die."
"Please let my lord pass on ahead of his servant; I will lead on slowly, according to the pace of the cattle and the children, until I come to my lord at Seir."
Esau said, "Let me leave with you some of the people who are with me." Jacob replied, "What need is there? Let me find favor in the sight of my lord."
So Esau returned that day on his way to Seir.
Jacob journeyed to Succoth, built a house for himself, and made booths for his cattle; therefore, the place was named Succoth.
Jacob arrived at Shalem, a city of Shechem in the land of Canaan, after coming from Padanaram, and pitched his tent before the city.
He purchased a parcel of land where he had pitched his tent from the children of Hamor, Shechem's father, for a hundred pieces of money.
There he erected an altar and called it EleloheIsrael.
