And Abraham traveled from there toward the southern region, settling between Kadesh and Shur, and he lived in Gerar.  
Abraham told Abimelech, king of Gerar, that Sarah was his sister, and Abimelech sent for her and took her.  
But God appeared to Abimelech in a dream at night, saying, "You are a dead man because of the woman you have taken; she is another man's wife."  
Abimelech had not approached her, and he replied, "LORD, will you destroy a righteous nation as well?"  
"Did he not say to me, 'She is my sister'? And she herself said, 'He is my brother.' In the integrity of my heart and the innocence of my hands, I have done this."  
God responded to him in a dream, "Yes, I know that you did this with a clear conscience; I also kept you from sinning against me, so I did not let you touch her."  
"Now, return the man's wife, for he is a prophet, and he will pray for you, and you will live. But if you do not return her, know that you will surely die, you and all who belong to you."  
So Abimelech rose early in the morning, called all his servants, and told them everything that had happened, and the men were greatly afraid.  
Then Abimelech summoned Abraham and asked him, "What have you done to us? How have I wronged you that you have brought such great sin upon me and my kingdom? You have done things to me that should not be done."  
Abimelech asked Abraham, "What did you see that made you do this?"  
Abraham replied, "I thought, 'Surely there is no fear of God in this place, and they will kill me because of my wife.'"  
"Besides, she is indeed my sister; she is the daughter of my father, but not the daughter of my mother, and she became my wife."  
"When God caused me to wander from my father's house, I said to her, 'This is your kindness to me: at every place we go, say of me, "He is my brother."'”  
Abimelech took sheep, oxen, male and female servants, and gave them to Abraham, and he returned Sarah, his wife, to him.  
Abimelech said, "Look, my land is before you; settle wherever you like."  
To Sarah, he said, "I have given your brother a thousand pieces of silver; this is to cover your eyes, for all who are with you and for all others; thus, you have been vindicated."  
So Abraham prayed to God, and God healed Abimelech, his wife, and his female servants, and they bore children.  
For the LORD had completely closed all the wombs in Abimelech's household because of Sarah, Abraham's wife.