Moreover, Ahithophel said to Absalom, "Let me choose twelve thousand men, and I will rise and pursue David this night.  
I will come upon him while he is weary and weak-handed, and I will make him afraid; all the people with him shall flee, and I will strike down the king alone.  
I will bring back all the people to you; the man you seek is as if all have returned, so all the people shall be at peace."  
This advice pleased Absalom and all the elders of Israel.  
Then Absalom said, "Call Hushai the Archite as well, and let us hear what he has to say."  
When Hushai arrived, Absalom spoke to him, saying, "Ahithophel has given this counsel: should we follow his advice? If not, speak up."  
Hushai replied to Absalom, "The counsel that Ahithophel has given is not good at this time.  
For you know your father and his men; they are mighty warriors, and they are as fierce as a bear robbed of her cubs in the field. Your father is a man of war and will not stay with the people.  
Behold, he is hiding now in some pit or another place; and when some of them are overthrown at the first attack, whoever hears it will say, 'There is a slaughter among the people following Absalom.'  
Even the bravest, whose heart is like that of a lion, will melt away, for all Israel knows that your father is a mighty man, and those with him are valiant.  
Therefore, I advise that all Israel be gathered to you, from Dan to Beersheba, as numerous as the sand by the sea; and that you go into battle in person.  
Then we will come upon him in a place where he can be found, and we will fall upon him like dew on the ground; not one of him or his men will be left.  
Moreover, if he has entered a city, all Israel will bring ropes to that city, and we will drag it into the river, until not one small stone remains."  
Absalom and all the men of Israel said, "The counsel of Hushai the Archite is better than the counsel of Ahithophel." For the LORD had determined to defeat the good counsel of Ahithophel, so that evil might come upon Absalom.  
Then Hushai said to Zadok and Abiathar the priests, "This is what Ahithophel advised Absalom and the elders of Israel; and this is what I have counseled.  
Now, send quickly and tell David, 'Do not spend the night in the plains of the wilderness, but cross over quickly; lest the king and all the people with him be swallowed up.'"  
Jonathan and Ahimaaz stayed at Enrogel, for they could not be seen entering the city; a servant girl went and told them, and they went and informed King David.  
However, a young man saw them and told Absalom; but they both quickly escaped and came to a man's house in Bahurim, which had a well in his courtyard, where they went down.  
The woman took and spread a covering over the well's mouth and scattered grain on it, so that nothing was known.  
When Absalom's servants came to the woman at the house, they asked, "Where are Ahimaaz and Jonathan?" The woman replied, "They have crossed over the brook." When they searched and could not find them, they returned to Jerusalem.  
After they had departed, the two men came up out of the well and went to King David, saying, "Arise, and cross quickly over the water, for Ahithophel has counseled against you."  
Then David arose, and all the people with him crossed over the Jordan; by morning light, not one of them was left behind.  
When Ahithophel saw that his counsel was not followed, he saddled his donkey, went home to his city, put his household in order, hanged himself, and died; he was buried in the tomb of his father.  
Then David came to Mahanaim, and Absalom crossed over the Jordan with all the men of Israel.  
Absalom made Amasa captain of the army instead of Joab; Amasa was the son of a man named Ithra, an Israelite, who had married Abigail, the daughter of Nahash, sister of Zeruiah, Joab's mother.  
So Israel and Absalom camped in the land of Gilead.  
When David arrived at Mahanaim, Shobi the son of Nahash from Rabbah of the Ammonites, Machir the son of Ammiel from Lodebar, and Barzillai the Gileadite from Rogelim  
brought beds, basins, earthenware vessels, wheat, barley, flour, parched grain, beans, lentils, and parched pulse,  
as well as honey, butter, sheep, and cheese from the herd, for David and the people with him to eat; for they said, "The people are hungry, weary, and thirsty in the wilderness."