The mighty God, even the LORD, has spoken and called the earth from the rising of the sun to its setting.  
Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God has shone forth.  
Our God will come and will not remain silent; a fire will consume before Him, and it will be very tempestuous all around Him.  
He will call to the heavens above and to the earth, so that He may judge His people.  
Gather my saints together to me, those who have made a covenant with me by sacrifice.  
And the heavens will declare His righteousness, for God is the judge Himself. Selah.  
Hear, O my people, and I will speak; O Israel, I will testify against you: I am God, your God.  
I will not rebuke you for your sacrifices or your burnt offerings, which have been continually before me.  
I will take no bull from your house, nor goats from your folds.  
For every beast of the forest is mine, and the cattle on a thousand hills are mine.  
I know all the birds of the mountains, and the wild beasts of the field are mine.  
If I were hungry, I would not tell you, for the world is mine, and all its fullness.  
Will I eat the flesh of bulls or drink the blood of goats?  
Offer to God thanksgiving, and pay your vows to the Most High.  
And call upon me in the day of trouble; I will deliver you, and you shall glorify me.  
But to the wicked, God says, "What do you have to do with declaring my statutes, or taking my covenant in your mouth?"  
Seeing that you hate instruction and cast my words behind you.  
When you saw a thief, you consented with him and have been a partaker with adulterers.  
You give your mouth to evil, and your tongue frames deceit.  
You sit and speak against your brother; you slander your own mother's son.  
These things you have done, and I kept silence; you thought that I was altogether like you: but I will reprove you and set them in order before your eyes.  
Now consider this, you who forget God, lest I tear you in pieces, and there be none to deliver.  
Whoever offers praise glorifies me; and to him who orders his conversation aright, I will show the salvation of God.