Then again, Abraham took a wife, and her name was Keturah.  
She bore him Zimran, Jokshan, Medan, Midian, Ishbak, and Shuah.  
Jokshan became the father of Sheba and Dedan. The sons of Dedan were Asshurim, Letushim, and Leummim.  
The sons of Midian were Ephah, Epher, Hanoch, Abidah, and Eldaah. All these were the children of Keturah.  
Abraham gave all that he had to Isaac.  
But to the sons of the concubines that Abraham had, he gave gifts and sent them away from Isaac his son while he was still alive, eastward to the east country.  
These are the days of the years of Abraham's life, which he lived: one hundred thirty-five years.  
Then Abraham breathed his last and died at a good old age, an old man, and full of years; and he was gathered to his people.  
His sons Isaac and Ishmael buried him in the cave of Machpelah, in the field of Ephron the son of Zohar the Hittite, which is before Mamre.  
The field which Abraham purchased from the sons of Heth: there Abraham was buried, and Sarah his wife.  
After the death of Abraham, God blessed his son Isaac, and Isaac dwelt by the well Lahairoi.  
Now these are the generations of Ishmael, Abraham's son, whom Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah's handmaid, bore to Abraham.  
These are the names of the sons of Ishmael, by their names, according to their generations: the firstborn of Ishmael was Nebajoth; then Kedar, Adbeel, and Mibsam,  
Mishma, Dumah, and Massa,  
Hadar, Tema, Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah.  
These are the sons of Ishmael, and these are their names, by their towns and by their castles; twelve princes according to their nations.  
These are the years of the life of Ishmael: one hundred thirty-seven years; he breathed his last and died, and was gathered to his people.  
They dwelt from Havilah to Shur, which is before Egypt, as one goes toward Assyria; and he died in the presence of all his brethren.  
These are the generations of Isaac, Abraham's son: Abraham begat Isaac.  
Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah to wife, the daughter of Bethuel the Syrian of Padanaram, the sister of Laban the Syrian.  
Isaac prayed to the LORD for his wife because she was barren; and the LORD was entreated by him, and Rebekah his wife conceived.  
The children struggled together within her, and she said, "If it is so, why am I like this?" So she went to inquire of the LORD.  
The LORD said to her, "Two nations are in your womb, and two manner of people shall be separated from your body; one people shall be stronger than the other, and the elder shall serve the younger."  
When her days to be delivered were fulfilled, behold, there were twins in her womb.  
The first came out red, all over like a hairy garment; and they called his name Esau.  
Afterward, his brother came out, and his hand took hold of Esau's heel; and his name was called Jacob. Isaac was sixty years old when she bore them.  
The boys grew: Esau was a cunning hunter, a man of the field; and Jacob was a plain man, dwelling in tents.  
Isaac loved Esau because he ate of his venison, but Rebekah loved Jacob.  
Jacob cooked a stew, and Esau came in from the field, and he was faint.  
Esau said to Jacob, "Feed me, I pray you, with that same red stew, for I am faint." Therefore, his name was called Edom.  
Jacob said, "Sell me your birthright this day."  
Esau said, "Behold, I am about to die; what profit shall this birthright be to me?"  
Jacob said, "Swear to me this day." So he swore to him and sold his birthright to Jacob.  
Then Jacob gave Esau bread and lentil stew; he ate and drank, rose up, and went his way. Thus, Esau despised his birthright.