Let us therefore be cautious, lest a promise remains for us to enter into His rest, and any of you may seem to fall short of it.
For the gospel was preached to us, just as it was to them; however, the message did not benefit them because it was not combined with faith in those who heard it.
For we who have believed do enter into rest, as He said, "As I have sworn in my wrath, they shall not enter into my rest," although the works were completed from the foundation of the world.
For He spoke in a certain place about the seventh day, saying, "And God rested on the seventh day from all His works."
And in this place again, "If they shall enter into my rest."
Therefore, it remains that some must enter, and those to whom it was first preached did not enter because of unbelief.
Again, He designates a certain day, saying in David, "Today, after so long a time," as it is said, "Today, if you will hear His voice, do not harden your hearts."
For if Jesus had given them rest, He would not afterward have spoken of another day.
There remains, therefore, a rest for the people of God.
For he who has entered into His rest has also ceased from his own works, just as God did from His.
Let us strive, therefore, to enter into that rest, lest any man fall into the same example of unbelief.
For the word of God is alive, powerful, and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the division of soul and spirit, and of joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart.
Neither is there any creature that is not revealed in His sight; but all things are naked and open to the eyes of Him with whom we have to do.
Seeing then that we have a great high priest who has passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold firmly to our profession.
For we do not have a high priest who cannot empathize with our weaknesses; but was in all points tempted as we are, yet without sin.
Let us therefore approach the throne of grace with confidence, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in our time of need.
