And it came to pass afterward that he traveled through every city and village, preaching and sharing the good news of the kingdom of God: and the twelve were with him.  
And certain women, who had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities, including Mary called Magdalene, from whom seven demons had gone out,  
And Joanna, the wife of Chuza, Herod's steward, and Susanna, and many others, who provided for him out of their own resources.  
And when a large crowd had gathered and had come to him from every city, he spoke to them in a parable:  
A sower went out to sow his seed; and as he sowed, some fell by the wayside, and it was trampled down, and the birds of the air devoured it.  
And some fell on rocky ground; and as soon as it sprang up, it withered away because it lacked moisture.  
And some fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up with it and choked it.  
And other seed fell on good soil, sprang up, and produced fruit a hundredfold. And when he had said these things, he cried out, "He who has ears to hear, let him hear."  
And his disciples asked him, saying, "What might this parable mean?"  
And he said, "To you it has been given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God, but to others, it is given in parables; so that seeing they may not see, and hearing they may not understand."  
Now the parable is this: The seed is the word of God.  
Those by the wayside are those who hear; then the devil comes and takes away the word from their hearts, lest they should believe and be saved.  
Those on the rocky ground are those who, when they hear, receive the word with joy; but they have no root; they believe for a while, and in a time of temptation, they fall away.  
And that which fell among thorns are those who, when they have heard, go out and are choked with cares, riches, and pleasures of this life, and bring no fruit to maturity.  
But that on the good ground are those who, having an honest and good heart, hear the word, keep it, and bring forth fruit with patience.  
No one, when he has lit a lamp, covers it with a vessel or puts it under a bed; but sets it on a lampstand, so that those who enter may see the light.  
For nothing is secret that will not be revealed, nor anything hidden that will not be known and come to light.  
Therefore take heed how you hear: for whoever has, to him more will be given; and whoever does not have, even what he seems to have will be taken from him.  
Then his mother and his brothers came to him, and could not approach him because of the crowd.  
And it was told him by some who said, "Your mother and your brothers are standing outside, desiring to see you."  
And he answered and said to them, "My mother and my brothers are those who hear the word of God and do it."  
Now it came to pass on a certain day that he went into a boat with his disciples, and he said to them, "Let us cross over to the other side of the lake." And they launched out.  
But as they sailed, he fell asleep; and a windstorm came down on the lake, and they were filling with water, and were in jeopardy.  
And they came to him and awoke him, saying, "Master, Master, we are perishing!" Then he arose and rebuked the wind and the raging of the water, and they ceased, and there was a calm.  
And he said to them, "Where is your faith?" And they were afraid and marveled, saying to one another, "What manner of man is this! For he commands even the winds and water, and they obey him."  
And they sailed to the country of the Gadarenes, which is opposite Galilee.  
And when he stepped out on land, there met him a certain man from the city who had demons for a long time, and wore no clothes, nor did he live in a house but in the tombs.  
When he saw Jesus, he cried out, fell down before him, and with a loud voice said, "What have I to do with you, Jesus, Son of the Most High God? I beg you, do not torment me."  
(For he had commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man. For it had often seized him, and he was kept under guard, bound with chains and shackles; and he broke the bonds and was driven by the demon into the wilderness.)  
And Jesus asked him, saying, "What is your name?" And he said, "Legion," because many demons had entered him.  
And they begged him that he would not command them to go out into the abyss.  
Now a herd of many swine was feeding there on the mountain; and they begged him that he would allow them to enter them. And he permitted them.  
Then the demons went out of the man and entered the swine, and the herd ran violently down the steep place into the lake and drowned.  
When those who fed them saw what had happened, they fled and told it in the city and in the country.  
Then they went out to see what had happened, and came to Jesus, and found the man from whom the demons had departed, sitting at the feet of Jesus, clothed and in his right mind; and they were afraid.  
And those who had seen it told them by what means he who had been demon-possessed was healed.  
Then the whole multitude of the surrounding region of the Gadarenes asked him to depart from them, for they were seized with great fear. And he got into the boat and returned.  
Now the man from whom the demons had departed begged him that he might be with him; but Jesus sent him away, saying,  
"Return to your own house, and tell what great things God has done for you." And he went his way and proclaimed throughout the whole city what great things Jesus had done for him.  
And it came to pass, when Jesus returned, the people welcomed him, for they were all waiting for him.  
And behold, there came a man named Jairus, and he was a ruler of the synagogue; and he fell down at Jesus' feet and begged him to come to his house,  
For he had an only daughter, about twelve years of age, and she was dying. But as he went, the crowds thronged him.  
And a woman having a flow of blood for twelve years, who had spent all her livelihood on physicians and could not be healed by any,  
Came from behind and touched the border of his garment, and immediately her flow of blood stopped.  
And Jesus said, "Who touched me?" When all denied it, Peter and those with him said, "Master, the multitudes throng and press you, and you say, 'Who touched me?'"  
But Jesus said, "Somebody touched me, for I perceived power going out from me."  
Now when the woman saw that she was not hidden, she came trembling and falling down before him, she declared to him in the presence of all the people the reason she had touched him and how she was healed immediately.  
And he said to her, "Daughter, be of good cheer; your faith has made you well. Go in peace."  
While he was still speaking, someone came from the ruler of the synagogue's house, saying to him, "Your daughter is dead; do not trouble the Teacher."  
But when Jesus heard it, he answered him, saying, "Do not be afraid; only believe, and she will be made well."  
When he came into the house, he permitted no one to go in except Peter, James, and John, and the father and mother of the girl.  
Now all wept and mourned for her; but he said, "Do not weep; she is not dead, but sleeping."  
And they laughed at him, knowing that she was dead.  
But he put them all outside, took her by the hand, and called, saying, "Little girl, arise."  
Then her spirit returned, and she arose immediately. And he commanded that she be given something to eat.  
And her parents were astonished, but he charged them to tell no one what had been done.