Having these promises, dearly beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all filthiness of the flesh and spirit, perfecting holiness in the fear of God.  
Receive us; we have wronged no one, we have corrupted no one, we have defrauded no one.  
I do not say this to condemn you; for I have previously stated that you are in our hearts, to die and live with you.  
Great is my boldness of speech toward you; great is my pride in you: I am filled with comfort, and I am exceedingly joyful in all our tribulation.  
For when we came into Macedonia, our flesh had no rest; we were troubled on every side: without were conflicts, within were fears.  
Nevertheless, God, who comforts those who are cast down, comforted us by the coming of Titus;  
And not only by his coming, but also by the consolation he received from you, when he told us of your earnest desire, your mourning, and your fervent mind toward me; so that I rejoiced even more.  
For though I made you sorry with a letter, I do not regret it, though I did regret it at first; for I perceive that the same epistle made you sorry, though it was only for a time.  
Now I rejoice, not that you were made sorry, but that your sorrow led to repentance; for you were made sorry in a godly manner, so that you might suffer no loss from us.  
For godly sorrow produces repentance leading to salvation, which is not to be regretted; but the sorrow of the world produces death.  
For behold, this very thing, that you sorrowed in a godly way, what diligence it produced in you, what clearing of yourselves, what indignation, what fear, what vehement desire, what zeal, what vindication! In all things, you have proven yourselves to be clear in this matter.  
Therefore, although I wrote to you, I did not do it for the sake of the one who had done wrong, nor for the sake of the one who suffered wrong, but that our care for you in the sight of God might be made evident to you.  
Thus, we were comforted in your comfort; and we rejoiced even more for the joy of Titus, because his spirit was refreshed by you all.  
For if I have boasted anything to him about you, I am not ashamed; but as we spoke all things to you in truth, so our boasting, which I made before Titus, has proven to be true.  
And his deep affection is even more abundant toward you, as he remembers your obedience, how with fear and trembling you received him.  
I therefore rejoice that I have confidence in you in all things.