And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, "Depart and go from here, you and the people you brought up from the land of Egypt, to the land I promised to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, saying, 'To your descendants, I will give it.'  
I will send an angel ahead of you; I will drive out the Canaanite, the Amorite, the Hittite, the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite.  
To a land flowing with milk and honey; for I will not go up in your midst, because you are a stubborn people, lest I consume you on the way."  
When the people heard these distressing words, they mourned, and no one put on their ornaments.  
For the LORD had said to Moses, "Tell the children of Israel, 'You are a stubborn people; I will come into your midst in a moment and consume you. Therefore, now remove your ornaments from you, so I may know what to do with you.'"  
And the children of Israel removed their ornaments at Mount Horeb.  
Moses took the tabernacle and pitched it outside the camp, far from the camp, and called it the Tabernacle of the congregation. It came to pass that everyone who sought the LORD went out to the Tabernacle of the congregation, which was outside the camp.  
When Moses went out to the tabernacle, all the people rose and stood at the entrance of their tents, watching Moses until he entered the tabernacle.  
As Moses entered the tabernacle, the cloudy pillar descended and stood at the entrance of the tabernacle, and the LORD spoke with Moses.  
All the people saw the cloudy pillar standing at the entrance of the tabernacle, and they rose and worshipped, each man at the entrance of his tent.  
The LORD spoke to Moses face to face, as a man speaks to his friend. Then Moses returned to the camp, but his servant Joshua, the son of Nun, a young man, did not depart from the tabernacle.  
Moses said to the LORD, "See, you say to me, 'Bring up this people,' but you have not let me know whom you will send with me. Yet you have said, 'I know you by name, and you have also found grace in my sight.'  
Now, therefore, I pray, if I have found grace in your sight, show me now your way, that I may know you and find grace in your sight; and consider that this nation is your people."  
He said, "My presence will go with you, and I will give you rest."  
Moses replied, "If your presence does not go with me, do not carry us up from here.  
For how will it be known that I and your people have found grace in your sight? Is it not in that you go with us? So we shall be distinct, I and your people, from all the people on the face of the earth."  
The LORD said to Moses, "I will do this thing you have spoken, for you have found grace in my sight, and I know you by name."  
Moses said, "I beseech you, show me your glory."  
He said, "I will make all my goodness pass before you, and I will proclaim the name of the LORD before you; I will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and I will show mercy on whom I will show mercy."  
He said, "You cannot see my face, for no man shall see me and live."  
The LORD said, "Behold, there is a place by me, and you shall stand upon a rock.  
It shall come to pass, while my glory passes by, that I will put you in a cleft of the rock and cover you with my hand while I pass by.  
Then I will take away my hand, and you shall see my back; but my face shall not be seen."