And the child Samuel served the LORD in the presence of Eli. The word of the LORD was rare in those days; there was no widespread revelation.  
At that time, Eli had laid down in his place, and his eyesight was growing dim, so he could not see.  
Before the lamp of God went out in the temple of the LORD, where the ark of God was, Samuel had gone to sleep.  
Then the LORD called Samuel, and he answered, "Here I am."  
He ran to Eli and said, "Here I am; you called me." Eli replied, "I did not call you; go back and lie down." So Samuel went and lay down.  
The LORD called Samuel again. Samuel arose and went to Eli, saying, "Here I am; you called me." Eli answered, "I did not call you, my son; go back and lie down."  
Now Samuel did not yet know the LORD, nor had the word of the LORD been revealed to him.  
The LORD called Samuel a third time. Samuel got up and went to Eli, saying, "Here I am; you called me." Eli realized that the LORD was calling the boy.  
So Eli told Samuel, "Go and lie down; if He calls you, say, 'Speak, LORD, for your servant is listening.'" Samuel went and lay down in his place.  
The LORD came and stood there, calling as before, "Samuel, Samuel." Samuel answered, "Speak, for your servant is listening."  
The LORD said to Samuel, "Look, I am about to do something in Israel that will make the ears of everyone who hears it tingle.  
On that day, I will carry out against Eli everything I spoke against his family, from beginning to end.  
For I told him that I would judge his family forever because of the sin he knew about; his sons made themselves contemptible, and he failed to restrain them.  
Therefore, I swore to the house of Eli that the iniquity of Eli's house will never be atoned for by sacrifice or offering."  
Samuel lay down until morning and then opened the doors of the house of the LORD. He was afraid to tell Eli the vision.  
Eli called Samuel and said, "Samuel, my son." Samuel answered, "Here I am."  
Eli asked, "What did the LORD say to you? Do not hide it from me. May God deal with you, be it ever so severely, if you hide from me anything he told you."  
So Samuel told him everything, hiding nothing from him. Eli said, "He is the LORD; let him do what is good in his eyes."  
Samuel grew up, and the LORD was with him; he let none of Samuel's words fall to the ground.  
All Israel from Dan to Beersheba recognized that Samuel was attested as a prophet of the LORD.  
The LORD continued to appear at Shiloh, and there he revealed himself to Samuel through his word.