My dear children, I am writing these things to you so that you do not sin. However, if anyone does sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous.  
He is the atoning sacrifice for our sins, and not only for ours, but also for the sins of the entire world.  
We can be sure that we know Him if we keep His commandments.  
Whoever claims, "I know Him," but does not keep His commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in them.  
But whoever keeps His word, in them the love of God is truly made complete. This is how we know we are in Him.  
Whoever claims to live in Him must walk as Jesus did.  
Dear friends, I am not writing you a new commandment, but an old one that you have had since the beginning. The old commandment is the message you have heard.  
Yet, I am writing you a new commandment; its truth is seen in Him and in you because the darkness is passing and the true light is already shining.  
Anyone who claims to be in the light but hates a brother or sister is still in darkness.  
Anyone who loves their brother and sister lives in the light, and there is nothing in them to make them stumble.  
But anyone who hates a brother or sister is in the darkness and walks around in the darkness, not knowing where they are going because the darkness has blinded them.  
I am writing to you, dear children, because your sins have been forgiven on account of His name.  
I am writing to you, fathers, because you know Him who is from the beginning. I am writing to you, young men, because you have overcome the evil one. I am writing to you, dear children, because you know the Father.  
I have written to you, fathers, because you know Him who is from the beginning. I have written to you, young men, because you are strong, and the word of God lives in you, and you have overcome the evil one.  
Do not love the world or anything in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in them.  
For everything in the world—the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life—comes not from the Father but from the world.  
The world and its desires pass away, but whoever does the will of God lives forever.  
Dear children, this is the last hour; and as you have heard that the antichrist is coming, even now many antichrists have come. This is how we know it is the last hour.  
They went out from us, but they did not really belong to us; for if they had belonged to us, they would have remained with us. But their going showed that none of them belonged to us.  
But you have an anointing from the Holy One, and all of you know the truth.  
I do not write to you because you do not know the truth, but because you do know it and because no lie comes from the truth.  
Who is the liar? It is whoever denies that Jesus is the Christ. Such a person is the antichrist—denying the Father and the Son.  
No one who denies the Son has the Father; whoever acknowledges the Son has the Father also.  
As for you, see that what you have heard from the beginning remains in you. If it does, you will also remain in the Son and in the Father.  
And this is what He promised us—eternal life.  
I am writing these things to you about those who are trying to lead you astray.  
As for you, the anointing you received from Him remains in you, and you do not need anyone to teach you. But as His anointing teaches you about all things and as that anointing is real, not counterfeit—just as it has taught you, remain in Him.  
And now, dear children, continue in Him, so that when He appears, we may be confident and unashamed before Him at His coming.  
If you know that He is righteous, you know that everyone who does what is right has been born of Him.