Furthermore, King David addressed the entire congregation, saying, "Solomon, my son, whom God has chosen, is still young and inexperienced, and the task ahead is significant: for the palace is not for man, but for the LORD God.

I have prepared with all my strength for the house of my God: the gold for items made of gold, the silver for items made of silver, the bronze for items made of bronze, the iron for items made of iron, and the wood for items made of wood; onyx stones, and stones to be set, sparkling stones of various colors, and all kinds of precious stones, along with an abundance of marble.

Moreover, because I have devoted my heart to the house of my God, I have given from my own resources, gold and silver, which I have contributed to the house of my God, in addition to all that I have prepared for the holy house.

This includes three thousand talents of gold from the gold of Ophir, and seven thousand talents of refined silver, to overlay the walls of the buildings.

The gold for items made of gold, and the silver for items made of silver, and for all kinds of work to be done by the hands of craftsmen. So who is willing to dedicate their service today to the LORD?

Then the leaders of the families, the princes of the tribes of Israel, the captains of thousands and hundreds, along with the rulers of the king's work, offered willingly,

And contributed for the service of the house of God: five thousand talents of gold and ten thousand darics, ten thousand talents of silver, eighteen thousand talents of bronze, and one hundred thousand talents of iron.

And those who had precious stones gave them to the treasury of the house of the LORD, through the hand of Jehiel the Gershonite.

Then the people rejoiced, for they had offered willingly, and with a perfect heart they had given to the LORD; and King David also rejoiced greatly.

Therefore, David blessed the LORD in the presence of all the congregation, and he said, "Blessed are you, LORD God of Israel our father, forever and ever.

Yours, O LORD, is the greatness, the power, the glory, the victory, and the majesty; for all that is in heaven and on earth is yours; yours is the kingdom, O LORD, and you are exalted as head over all.

Both riches and honor come from you, and you reign over all; in your hand are power and might; it is in your hand to make great and to give strength to all.

Now, therefore, our God, we thank you and praise your glorious name.

But who am I, and what is my people, that we should be able to offer so willingly in this manner? For all things come from you, and of your own have we given you.

For we are strangers before you, and sojourners, as were all our ancestors; our days on earth are like a shadow, and there is no permanence.

O LORD our God, all this abundance that we have prepared to build you a house for your holy name comes from your hand, and is all your own.

I know also, my God, that you test the heart and take pleasure in uprightness. As for me, in the integrity of my heart I have willingly offered all these things; and now I have seen with joy your people, who are present here, offering willingly to you.

O LORD God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, our ancestors, keep this forever in the thoughts and intentions of the hearts of your people, and prepare their hearts toward you.

And give my son Solomon a perfect heart, to keep your commandments, your testimonies, and your statutes, and to do all these things, and to build the palace for which I have made provision.

And David said to all the congregation, "Now bless the LORD your God." And all the congregation blessed the LORD God of their ancestors, and bowed their heads and worshiped the LORD and the king.

And they sacrificed offerings to the LORD, and offered burnt offerings to the LORD the day after that, a thousand bullocks, a thousand rams, and a thousand lambs, with their drink offerings, and sacrifices in abundance for all Israel.

And they ate and drank before the LORD on that day with great joy. And they made Solomon the son of David king a second time, and anointed him to be the chief governor, and Zadok to be priest.

Then Solomon sat on the throne of the LORD as king in place of his father David, and prospered; and all Israel obeyed him.

All the princes, the mighty men, and all the sons of King David likewise submitted themselves to King Solomon.

And the LORD magnified Solomon exceedingly in the sight of all Israel, and bestowed upon him such royal majesty as had not been on any king before him in Israel.

Thus, David the son of Jesse reigned over all Israel.

The duration of his reign over Israel was forty years; he reigned seven years in Hebron, and thirty-three years in Jerusalem.

He died at a good old age, full of days, riches, and honor; and his son Solomon reigned in his place.

Now the acts of King David, from beginning to end, are written in the book of Samuel the seer, in the book of Nathan the prophet, and in the book of Gad the seer,

With all his reign and his might, and the events that transpired during his time, over Israel, and over all the kingdoms of the countries."