Woe to the crown of pride, to the drunkards of Ephraim, whose glorious beauty is a fading flower, resting on the heads of the fat valleys, those who are overcome with wine!
Behold, the Lord has a mighty and strong one, like a tempest of hail and a destroying storm, like a flood of mighty waters overflowing, which shall cast down to the earth with His hand.
The crown of pride, the drunkards of Ephraim, shall be trampled underfoot.
And the glorious beauty, which rests on the head of the fat valley, shall be a fading flower, like the hasty fruit before summer; when one looks upon it, he eats it up while it is still in his hand.
In that day, the LORD of hosts shall be a crown of glory and a diadem of beauty for the remnant of His people,
And for a spirit of judgment to him who sits in judgment, and for strength to those who turn the battle to the gate.
But they have also erred through wine, and through strong drink have gone astray; the priest and the prophet have stumbled through strong drink, they are swallowed up by wine, they have gone astray through strong drink; they err in vision and stumble in judgment.
For all tables are full of vomit and filthiness, so that there is no clean place.
Whom shall He teach knowledge? And whom shall He make to understand doctrine? Those who are weaned from milk and drawn from the breasts.
For precept must be upon precept, precept upon precept; line upon line, line upon line; here a little, and there a little.
For with stammering lips and another tongue will He speak to this people.
To whom He said, "This is the rest with which you may cause the weary to rest; and this is the refreshing": yet they would not listen.
But the word of the LORD was to them precept upon precept, precept upon precept; line upon line, line upon line; here a little, and there a little; that they might go, and fall backward, and be broken, and snared, and taken.
Therefore, hear the word of the LORD, you scornful men who rule this people in Jerusalem.
Because you have said, "We have made a covenant with death, and with hell are we in agreement; when the overflowing scourge passes through, it shall not come to us: for we have made lies our refuge, and under falsehood have we hidden ourselves."
Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD, "Behold, I lay in Zion for a foundation a stone, a tried stone, a precious cornerstone, a sure foundation: he who believes shall not make haste."
Judgment also will I lay to the line, and righteousness to the plummet: and the hail shall sweep away the refuge of lies, and the waters shall overflow the hiding place.
And your covenant with death shall be annulled, and your agreement with hell shall not stand; when the overflowing scourge passes through, then you shall be trampled down by it.
From the time it goes forth, it shall take you: for morning by morning it shall pass over, by day and by night: and it shall be a vexation only to understand the report.
For the bed is shorter than a man can stretch himself on it, and the covering narrower than he can wrap himself in it.
For the LORD shall rise up as in Mount Perazim, He shall be angry as in the valley of Gibeon, that He may do His work, His strange work; and bring to pass His act, His strange act.
Now therefore, do not be mockers, lest your bands be made strong: for I have heard from the Lord GOD of hosts a consumption, even determined upon the whole earth.
Give ear, and hear my voice; hearken, and hear my speech.
Does the plowman plow all day to sow? Does he open and break the clods of his ground?
When he has made plain the face thereof, does he not cast abroad the fitches, and scatter the cummin, and cast in the principal wheat, and the appointed barley, and the rye in their place?
For his God instructs him to discretion and teaches him.
For the fitches are not threshed with a threshing instrument, neither is a cartwheel turned about upon the cummin; but the fitches are beaten out with a staff, and the cummin with a rod.
Bread corn is bruised; because he will not always be threshing it, nor break it with the wheel of his cart, nor bruise it with his horsemen.
This also comes forth from the LORD of hosts, who is wonderful in counsel and excellent in working.
