Now I, Paul, beseech you by the meekness and gentleness of Christ, who is base in presence among you, but bold when absent toward you.
But I urge you not to make me bold when I am present with the confidence I intend to use against some who think of us as if we walk according to the flesh.
For though we walk in the flesh, we do not wage war according to the flesh.
(For the weapons of our warfare are not carnal, but mighty through God for the pulling down of strongholds.)
Casting down imaginations and every high thing that exalts itself against the knowledge of God, and bringing every thought into captivity to the obedience of Christ.
And being ready to punish all disobedience once your obedience is complete.
Do you look at things according to the outward appearance? If anyone thinks he is Christ's, let him consider this again: just as he is Christ's, so are we Christ's.
For even if I should boast a little more about our authority, which the Lord has given us for edification and not for your destruction, I would not be ashamed.
So that I do not appear to be trying to frighten you with my letters.
For they say, "His letters are weighty and powerful, but his bodily presence is weak, and his speech is contemptible."
Let such a person consider this: what we are in word by letters when absent, we will also be in deed when present.
For we do not dare to classify or compare ourselves with some who commend themselves; but they, measuring themselves by themselves and comparing themselves among themselves, are not wise.
But we will not boast beyond our measure, but according to the measure of the rule which God has distributed to us, a measure that reaches even to you.
For we do not stretch ourselves beyond our measure, as if we had not reached you; for we have come as far as you in preaching the gospel of Christ.
Not boasting beyond our measure, that is, in the labors of others; but having hope that as your faith increases, we shall be greatly enlarged by you according to our rule.
To preach the gospel in the regions beyond you, and not to boast in another man's line of things prepared for us.
But he who glories, let him glory in the Lord.
For it is not he who commends himself that is approved, but whom the Lord commends.
