Now it came to pass, when Adonizedec, king of Jerusalem, heard how Joshua had taken Ai and utterly destroyed it; just as he had done to Jericho and its king, so he had done to Ai and its king; and how the inhabitants of Gibeon had made peace with Israel and were among them;
That they feared greatly, because Gibeon was a great city, one of the royal cities, and because it was greater than Ai, and all its men were mighty.
Therefore, Adonizedec, king of Jerusalem, sent to Hoham, king of Hebron, and to Piram, king of Jarmuth, and to Japhia, king of Lachish, and to Debir, king of Eglon, saying,
"Come up to me and help me, that we may strike Gibeon, for it has made peace with Joshua and the children of Israel."
Thus, the five kings of the Amorites—the king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebron, the king of Jarmuth, the king of Lachish, and the king of Eglon—gathered together, went up with all their hosts, encamped before Gibeon, and made war against it.
And the men of Gibeon sent to Joshua at the camp in Gilgal, saying, "Do not withdraw your hand from your servants; come up to us quickly and save us, and help us, for all the kings of the Amorites who dwell in the mountains have gathered against us."
So Joshua ascended from Gilgal, he and all the warriors with him, along with all the mighty men of valor.
And the LORD said to Joshua, "Do not fear them, for I have delivered them into your hand; not a man of them shall stand before you."
Joshua therefore came upon them suddenly and marched up from Gilgal all night.
And the LORD threw them into confusion before Israel, and struck them with a great slaughter at Gibeon, chasing them along the road that goes up to Bethhoron, and struck them as far as Azekah and Makkedah.
And it came to pass, as they fled from before Israel and were going down to Bethhoron, that the LORD cast down large hailstones from heaven upon them as far as Azekah, and they died; there were more who died from the hailstones than those whom the children of Israel killed with the sword.
Then Joshua spoke to the LORD on the day when the LORD delivered up the Amorites before the children of Israel, and he said in the sight of Israel, "Sun, stand still over Gibeon; and Moon, in the valley of Ajalon."
And the sun stood still, and the moon stopped, until the people had avenged themselves upon their enemies. Is this not written in the Book of Jasher? So the sun stood still in the midst of heaven and did not hasten to go down for about a whole day.
And there was no day like that before it or after it, when the LORD heeded the voice of a man, for the LORD fought for Israel.
And Joshua returned, and all Israel with him, to the camp at Gilgal.
But these five kings fled and hid themselves in a cave at Makkedah.
And it was told to Joshua, saying, "The five kings have been found hidden in a cave at Makkedah."
And Joshua said, "Roll great stones upon the mouth of the cave, and set men by it to keep watch over them.
And do not stop, but pursue your enemies and strike the rear guard; do not allow them to enter their cities, for the LORD your God has delivered them into your hand."
And it came to pass, when Joshua and the children of Israel had finished slaying them with a very great slaughter until they were consumed, that the rest of them entered into fortified cities.
And all the people returned to the camp to Joshua at Makkedah in peace; no one spoke a word against any of the children of Israel.
Then Joshua said, "Open the mouth of the cave and bring those five kings out to me."
And they did so, bringing forth those five kings to him from the cave: the king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebron, the king of Jarmuth, the king of Lachish, and the king of Eglon.
And it came to pass, when they brought those kings to Joshua, that Joshua called for all the men of Israel and said to the captains of the men of war who went with him, "Come near, put your feet upon the necks of these kings." And they came near and put their feet upon their necks.
And Joshua said to them, "Do not fear, nor be dismayed; be strong and of good courage, for thus the LORD will do to all your enemies against whom you fight."
And afterward, Joshua struck them, killed them, and hanged them on five trees; they were hanging on the trees until evening.
And it came to pass at the time of the going down of the sun that Joshua commanded, and they took them down from the trees, cast them into the cave where they had been hidden, and laid great stones at the mouth of the cave, which remain until this very day.
And that day, Joshua took Makkedah, struck it with the edge of the sword, and utterly destroyed its king and all the souls that were in it; he let none remain, and he did to the king of Makkedah as he had done to the king of Jericho.
Then Joshua passed from Makkedah, and all Israel with him, to Libnah, and fought against Libnah.
And the LORD also delivered it, along with its king, into the hand of Israel; he struck it with the edge of the sword, and all the souls that were in it; he let none remain in it, but did to its king as he had done to the king of Jericho.
And Joshua passed from Libnah, and all Israel with him, to Lachish, and encamped against it, and fought against it.
And the LORD delivered Lachish into the hand of Israel, which took it on the second day, struck it with the edge of the sword, and all the souls that were in it, according to all that he had done to Libnah.
Then Horam, king of Gezer, came up to help Lachish; and Joshua struck him and his people, leaving none remaining.
And from Lachish, Joshua passed to Eglon, and all Israel with him; they encamped against it and fought against it.
And they took it that day, struck it with the edge of the sword, and utterly destroyed all the souls that were in it, according to all that he had done to Lachish.
And Joshua went up from Eglon, and all Israel with him, to Hebron; and they fought against it.
And they took it, struck it with the edge of the sword, and its king, all its cities, and all the souls that were in it; he left none remaining, according to all that he had done to Eglon; he utterly destroyed it and all the souls that were in it.
And Joshua returned, and all Israel with him, to Debir; and fought against it.
And he took it, its king, and all its cities; they struck them with the edge of the sword and utterly destroyed all the souls that were in it; he left none remaining, just as he had done to Hebron, so he did to Debir and its king; as he had done also to Libnah and its king.
So Joshua struck all the region of the hills, the south, the vale, the springs, and all their kings; he left none remaining, but utterly destroyed all that breathed, as the LORD God of Israel commanded.
And Joshua struck them from Kadeshbarnea even to Gaza, and all the region of Goshen, even to Gibeon.
And all these kings and their land did Joshua take at one time, because the LORD God of Israel fought for Israel.
And Joshua returned, and all Israel with him, to the camp at Gilgal.
