And I, brethren, could not address you as spiritual beings, but as those who are carnal, even as infants in Christ.  
I have nourished you with milk, not solid food, for until now you were not able to handle it, and even now you are still not able.  
For you are still carnal; for where there is jealousy, strife, and divisions among you, are you not carnal and behaving like mere humans?  
For when one says, "I follow Paul," and another, "I follow Apollos," are you not carnal?  
Who then is Paul, and who is Apollos, but servants through whom you believed, as the Lord assigned to each?  
I planted, Apollos watered; but God gave the growth.  
So neither he who plants nor he who waters is anything, but only God who gives the growth.  
Now he who plants and he who waters are one, and each will receive his own reward according to his own labor.  
For we are fellow workers in God’s service; you are God’s field, God’s building.  
According to the grace of God given to me, as a skilled master builder, I laid the foundation, and another is building upon it. But let each one take care how he builds upon it.  
For no one can lay a foundation other than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ.  
Now if anyone builds on the foundation with gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, straw;  
Each person's work will be made manifest, for the Day will disclose it, because it will be revealed by fire, and the fire will test what sort of work each one has done.  
If the work that anyone has built on the foundation survives, he will receive a reward.  
If anyone's work is burned up, he will suffer loss, though he himself will be saved, but only as through fire.  
Do you not know that you are God's temple and that God's Spirit dwells in you?  
If anyone destroys God's temple, God will destroy him, for God's temple is holy, and you are that temple.  
Let no one deceive himself. If anyone among you thinks he is wise in this age, let him become a fool that he may become wise.  
For the wisdom of this world is folly with God. For it is written, "He catches the wise in their craftiness."  
And again, "The Lord knows the thoughts of the wise, that they are futile."  
So let no one boast in men. For all things are yours,  
Whether Paul, or Apollos, or Cephas, or the world, or life, or death, or the present, or the future; all are yours,  
And you are Christ's; and Christ is God's.