Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, addresses the strangers scattered throughout Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia.  
Chosen according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, through the sanctification of the Spirit, for obedience and the sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ: May grace and peace be multiplied to you.  
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who, according to His abundant mercy, has given us new birth into a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead.  
To an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for you,  
Who are protected by the power of God through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time.  
In this you greatly rejoice, even though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials,  
So that the genuineness of your faith, which is much more precious than gold that perishes, even though tested by fire, may be found to result in praise, glory, and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ.  
Though you have not seen Him, you love Him; and even though you do not see Him now, you believe in Him and rejoice with an inexpressible and glorious joy,  
For you are receiving the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls.  
Concerning this salvation, the prophets who prophesied of the grace that was to be yours searched and investigated carefully,  
Trying to determine the time and circumstances to which the Spirit of Christ in them was pointing when He predicted the sufferings of Christ and the glories that would follow.  
It was revealed to them that they were not serving themselves but you, when they spoke of the things that have now been announced to you through those who preached the good news to you by the Holy Spirit sent from heaven; even angels long to look into these things.  
Therefore, prepare your minds for action; be sober-minded; set your hope fully on the grace that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ.  
As obedient children, do not conform to the evil desires you had when you lived in ignorance.  
But just as He who called you is holy, so be holy in all you do;  
For it is written: "Be holy, because I am holy."  
Since you call on a Father who judges each person's work impartially, live out your time as foreigners here in reverent fear.  
For you know that it was not with perishable things such as silver or gold that you were redeemed from the empty way of life handed down to you from your ancestors,  
But with the precious blood of Christ, a lamb without blemish or defect.  
He was chosen before the creation of the world, but was revealed in these last times for your sake.  
Through Him you believe in God, who raised Him from the dead and glorified Him, and so your faith and hope are in God.  
Now that you have purified yourselves by obeying the truth so that you have sincere love for each other, love one another deeply, from the heart.  
For you have been born again, not of perishable seed, but of imperishable, through the living and enduring word of God.  
For "All people are like grass, and all their glory is like the flowers of the field; the grass withers and the flowers fall,  
But the word of the Lord endures forever." And this is the word that was preached to you through the gospel.