He looked up and saw the wealthy individuals placing their gifts into the treasury.  
He also noticed a poor widow putting in two small coins.  
He said, "Truly, I tell you, this poor widow has given more than all the others:  
For all these have contributed from their surplus to the offerings of God, but she, in her poverty, has given all she had to live on."  
As some spoke of the temple, admiring its beautiful stones and offerings, he remarked,  
"Regarding these things you see, the days will come when not one stone will be left on another; every stone will be thrown down."  
They asked him, "Teacher, when will these things happen? What sign will indicate that these events are about to take place?"  
He replied, "Be careful that you are not deceived, for many will come in my name, claiming, 'I am the Christ,' and saying, 'The time is near.' Do not follow them."  
"But when you hear of wars and disturbances, do not be alarmed; these things must happen first, but the end will not come immediately."  
Then he said to them, "Nation will rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom.  
There will be great earthquakes in various places, and famines and plagues; there will be terrifying sights and great signs from heaven."  
"But before all this, they will lay hands on you and persecute you, delivering you to synagogues and prisons, and you will be brought before kings and governors because of my name."  
"This will be your opportunity to bear witness."  
"Therefore, settle it in your hearts not to prepare your defense in advance,  
For I will give you words and wisdom that none of your adversaries will be able to resist or contradict."  
"You will be betrayed even by parents, siblings, relatives, and friends, and they will put some of you to death."  
"You will be hated by everyone because of my name."  
"Yet not a hair on your head will perish."  
"By your endurance, you will gain your souls."  
"When you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, know that its desolation is near."  
"Then let those in Judea flee to the mountains; let those in the city depart, and let those in the countryside not enter it."  
"For these are the days of vengeance, to fulfill all that is written."  
"But woe to those who are pregnant and to those nursing babies in those days! For there will be great distress in the land and wrath against this people."  
"They will fall by the sword and be taken captive to all nations; Jerusalem will be trampled by the Gentiles until the times of the Gentiles are fulfilled."  
"There will be signs in the sun, moon, and stars; on the earth, nations will be in anguish and perplexity at the roaring of the sea and waves."  
"People will faint from terror, apprehensive of what is coming on the world, for the heavenly bodies will be shaken."  
"At that time, they will see the Son of Man coming in a cloud with power and great glory."  
"When these things begin to take place, stand up and lift your heads, because your redemption is drawing near."  
He told them this parable: "Look at the fig tree and all the trees;  
When they sprout leaves, you can see for yourselves and know that summer is near."  
"So also, when you see these things happening, know that the kingdom of God is near."  
"Truly, I tell you, this generation will certainly not pass away until all these things have happened."  
"Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will never pass away."  
"Be careful, or your hearts will be weighed down with carousing, drunkenness, and the anxieties of life, and that day will close in on you unexpectedly."  
"For it will come on all those who live on the face of the whole earth."  
"Be always on the watch, and pray that you may be able to escape all that is about to happen and that you may be able to stand before the Son of Man."  
During the day, he was teaching in the temple, and at night he went out and spent the night on the Mount of Olives.  
All the people came early in the morning to hear him in the temple.