The word of the LORD came to me again, saying,  
"Now, son of man, take up a lamentation for Tyrus;  
And say to Tyrus, O you who are situated at the entry of the sea, a merchant of the people for many isles, thus says the Lord GOD: O Tyrus, you have claimed, 'I am of perfect beauty.'  
Your borders are in the midst of the seas; your builders have perfected your beauty.  
They have made all your ship boards from fir trees of Senir; they have taken cedars from Lebanon to make masts for you.  
From the oaks of Bashan, they have made your oars; the company of the Ashurites has crafted your benches from ivory, brought from the isles of Chittim.  
Fine linen with embroidered work from Egypt was what you spread forth as your sail; blue and purple from the isles of Elishah was what covered you.  
The inhabitants of Zidon and Arvad were your mariners; your wise men, O Tyrus, who were in you, were your pilots.  
The elders of Gebal and their wise men were in you as your caulkers; all the ships of the sea with their mariners were in you to conduct your trade.  
Those from Persia, Lud, and Phut were in your army, your men of war; they hung the shield and helmet in you, showcasing your splendor.  
The men of Arvad with your army were upon your walls all around, and the Gammadims were in your towers; they hung their shields upon your walls all around, making your beauty perfect.  
Tarshish was your merchant because of the multitude of all kinds of riches; with silver, iron, tin, and lead, they traded in your fairs.  
Javan, Tubal, and Meshech were your merchants; they traded the persons of men and vessels of brass in your market.  
Those from the house of Togarmah traded in your fairs with horses, horsemen, and mules.  
The men of Dedan were your merchants; many isles were the merchandise of your hand: they brought you as a present horns of ivory and ebony.  
Syria was your merchant because of the multitude of the wares you made; they traded in your fairs with emeralds, purple, embroidered work, fine linen, coral, and agate.  
Judah and the land of Israel were your merchants; they traded in your market wheat from Minnith, Pannag, honey, oil, and balm.  
Damascus was your merchant in the multitude of the wares you made, for the abundance of all riches; in the wine of Helbon and white wool.  
Dan and Javan, going to and fro, occupied in your fairs: bright iron, cassia, and calamus were in your market.  
Dedan was your merchant in precious garments for chariots.  
Arabia and all the princes of Kedar traded with you in lambs, rams, and goats; in these, they were your merchants.  
The merchants of Sheba and Raamah were your merchants; they traded in your fairs with the chief of all spices, precious stones, and gold.  
Haran, Canneh, and Eden, the merchants of Sheba, Asshur, and Chilmad were your merchants.  
These were your merchants in all sorts of goods, in blue clothes, embroidered work, and in chests of rich apparel, bound with cords, and made of cedar, among your merchandise.  
The ships of Tarshish sang of you in your market; you were replenished and made very glorious in the midst of the seas.  
Your rowers brought you into great waters; the east wind has broken you in the midst of the seas.  
Your riches, your fairs, your merchandise, your mariners, your pilots, your caulkers, and all your men of war that are in you, and all your company which is in the midst of you, shall fall into the midst of the seas on the day of your ruin.  
The suburbs shall shake at the sound of the cry of your pilots.  
And all who handle the oar, the mariners, and all the pilots of the sea shall come down from their ships; they shall stand upon the land;  
And shall cause their voices to be heard against you, and shall cry bitterly, and shall cast dust upon their heads; they shall wallow themselves in ashes.  
And they shall make themselves utterly bald for you, and gird themselves with sackcloth; they shall weep for you with bitterness of heart and bitter wailing.  
And in their wailing, they shall take up a lamentation for you, and lament over you, saying, 'What city is like Tyrus, like the destroyed in the midst of the sea?'  
When your wares went forth from the seas, you filled many people; you enriched the kings of the earth with the multitude of your riches and your merchandise.  
At the time when you shall be broken by the seas in the depths of the waters, your merchandise and all your company in the midst of you shall fall.  
All the inhabitants of the isles shall be astonished at you, and their kings shall be sore afraid; they shall be troubled in their countenance.  
The merchants among the people shall hiss at you; you shall be a terror, and you shall never be anymore."