Jude, a servant of Jesus Christ and brother of James, to those who are sanctified by God the Father, preserved in Jesus Christ, and called:
May mercy, peace, and love be multiplied to you.
Beloved, when I diligently set out to write to you about our common salvation, it was necessary for me to urge you to earnestly contend for the faith that was once delivered to the saints.
For certain individuals have secretly slipped in, who were designated long ago for this condemnation—ungodly people who pervert the grace of our God into a license for immorality and deny our only Master and Lord, Jesus Christ.
I want to remind you, though you already know this, that the Lord, having saved the people from the land of Egypt, later destroyed those who did not believe.
And the angels who did not keep their positions of authority but abandoned their proper dwelling—He has kept in darkness, bound with everlasting chains for judgment on the great Day.
Just as Sodom and Gomorrah and the surrounding cities indulged in sexual immorality and pursued unnatural desires, they serve as an example of those who suffer the punishment of eternal fire.
In the same way, these dreamers pollute their own bodies, reject authority, and slander celestial beings.
Yet Michael the archangel, when disputing with the devil about the body of Moses, did not dare to bring a slanderous accusation against him but said, "The Lord rebuke you!"
But these people slander whatever they do not understand; and the very things they do understand by instinct, as irrational animals do, will destroy them.
Woe to them! They have taken the way of Cain; they have rushed for profit into Balaam's error; they have been destroyed in Korah's rebellion.
These are blemishes at your love feasts, eating with you without the slightest qualm—shepherds who feed only themselves. They are clouds without rain, blown along by the wind; autumn trees, without fruit and uprooted—twice dead.
They are wild waves of the sea, foaming up their shame; wandering stars, for whom blackest darkness has been reserved forever.
Enoch, the seventh from Adam, prophesied about them: "See, the Lord is coming with thousands upon thousands of his holy ones,
to judge everyone and to convict all of them of all the ungodly acts they have committed in their ungodliness, and of all the defiant words ungodly sinners have spoken against him."
These people are grumblers and faultfinders; they follow their own evil desires; they boast about themselves and flatter others for their own advantage.
But, dear friends, remember what the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ foretold.
They said to you, "In the last times there will be scoffers who will follow their own ungodly desires."
These are the people who divide you, who follow mere natural instincts and do not have the Spirit.
But you, dear friends, by building yourselves up in your most holy faith and praying in the Holy Spirit,
keep yourselves in God’s love as you wait for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ to bring you to eternal life.
Be merciful to those who doubt;
save others by snatching them from the fire and to others show mercy, mixed with fear—hating even the clothing stained by corrupted flesh.
To him who is able to keep you from stumbling and to present you before his glorious presence without fault and with great joy—
to the only God our Savior be glory, majesty, power, and authority, through Jesus Christ our Lord, before all ages, now and forevermore! Amen.
