Moreover, the word of the LORD came to me, saying,  
"Now, son of man, will you judge, will you judge the bloody city? Yes, you shall show her all her abominations.  
Then say, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: The city sheds blood in the midst of it, so that her time may come, and makes idols against herself to defile herself.'  
You have become guilty in the blood you have shed; you have defiled yourself with the idols you have made; you have caused your days to draw near and have come even to your years. Therefore, I have made you a reproach to the nations and a mockery to all countries.  
Those who are near and those who are far from you shall mock you, you who are infamous and greatly troubled.  
Behold, the princes of Israel, every one of them, were in you to their power to shed blood.  
In you, they have disregarded father and mother; in your midst, they have dealt oppressively with the stranger; in you, they have wronged the fatherless and the widow.  
You have despised my holy things and profaned my sabbaths.  
In you are men who carry tales to shed blood; and in you, they eat upon the mountains; in your midst, they commit lewdness.  
In you, they have uncovered their fathers' nakedness; in you, they have humbled her who was set apart for pollution.  
And one has committed abomination with his neighbor's wife; another has lewdly defiled his daughter-in-law; and another in you has humbled his sister, his father's daughter.  
In you, they have taken bribes to shed blood; you have taken usury and increase, and you have greedily gained from your neighbors by extortion, and you have forgotten me, says the Lord GOD.  
Behold, therefore, I have struck my hand at your dishonest gain which you have made, and at your blood which has been in your midst.  
Can your heart endure, or can your hands be strong, in the days that I shall deal with you? I, the LORD, have spoken it, and I will do it.  
And I will scatter you among the nations, and disperse you in the countries, and will consume your filthiness out of you.  
And you shall take your inheritance in yourself in the sight of the nations, and you shall know that I am the LORD.  
And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,  
"Son of man, the house of Israel has become dross to me: all of them are brass, tin, iron, and lead, in the midst of the furnace; they are even the dross of silver.  
Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD: Because you have all become dross, behold, I will gather you into the midst of Jerusalem.  
As they gather silver, brass, iron, lead, and tin into the midst of the furnace, to blow the fire upon it, to melt it; so will I gather you in my anger and in my fury, and I will leave you there and melt you.  
Yes, I will gather you and blow upon you in the fire of my wrath, and you shall be melted in the midst thereof.  
As silver is melted in the midst of the furnace, so shall you be melted in the midst thereof; and you shall know that I, the LORD, have poured out my fury upon you.  
And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,  
"Son of man, say to her, 'You are the land that is not cleansed, nor rained upon in the day of indignation.'  
There is a conspiracy of her prophets in the midst thereof, like a roaring lion ravening the prey; they have devoured souls; they have taken treasures and precious things; they have made her many widows in the midst thereof.  
Her priests have violated my law and profaned my holy things; they have made no distinction between the holy and the profane, nor have they shown difference between the unclean and the clean, and they have hidden their eyes from my sabbaths, and I am profaned among them.  
Her princes in the midst thereof are like wolves ravening the prey, to shed blood and destroy souls, to get dishonest gain.  
And her prophets have daubed them with untempered mortar, seeing vanity and divining lies unto them, saying, 'Thus says the Lord GOD,' when the LORD has not spoken.  
The people of the land have used oppression, exercised robbery, and vexed the poor and needy; yes, they have wronged the stranger unjustly.  
And I sought for a man among them who should make up the hedge and stand in the gap before me for the land, that I should not destroy it; but I found none.  
Therefore, I have poured out my indignation upon them; I have consumed them with the fire of my wrath; their own way have I recompensed upon their heads, says the Lord GOD."