And it came to pass, when the king sat in his house, and the LORD had granted him peace all around from all his enemies;  
That the king said to Nathan the prophet, "Look now, I dwell in a house of cedar, but the ark of God resides within curtains."  
And Nathan said to the king, "Go, do all that is in your heart; for the LORD is with you."  
And it came to pass that night, that the word of the LORD came to Nathan, saying,  
"Go and tell my servant David, 'Thus says the LORD, will you build me a house to dwell in?'"  
"Since the time I brought the children of Israel up from Egypt to this day, I have not dwelt in a house, but have walked in a tent and in a tabernacle."  
"In all the places where I have walked with all the children of Israel, did I ever speak a word with any of the tribes of Israel, whom I commanded to shepherd my people Israel, saying, 'Why have you not built me a house of cedar?'"  
"Now therefore, you shall say to my servant David, 'Thus says the LORD of hosts, I took you from the sheepfold, from following the sheep, to be ruler over my people, over Israel.'"  
"And I was with you wherever you went, and have cut off all your enemies from before you, and have made you a great name, like the name of the great men who are on the earth."  
"Moreover, I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and will plant them, that they may dwell in their own place, and be disturbed no more; neither shall the children of wickedness afflict them anymore, as in the past,"  
"And since the time I commanded judges to be over my people Israel, and have caused you to rest from all your enemies. Also, the LORD tells you that He will make you a house."  
"And when your days are fulfilled, and you sleep with your fathers, I will set up your seed after you, which shall come from your body, and I will establish his kingdom."  
"He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever."  
"I will be his father, and he shall be my son. If he commits iniquity, I will chasten him with the rod of men, and with the stripes of the children of men;"  
"But my mercy shall not depart from him, as I took it from Saul, whom I removed before you."  
"And your house and your kingdom shall be established forever before you: your throne shall be established forever."  
"According to all these words, and according to all this vision, so Nathan spoke to David."  
Then King David went in, and sat before the LORD, and he said, "Who am I, O Lord GOD? And what is my house, that you have brought me this far?"  
"And this was yet a small thing in your sight, O Lord GOD; but you have also spoken of your servant's house for a long time to come. And is this the manner of man, O Lord GOD?"  
"And what can David say more to you? For you, Lord GOD, know your servant."  
"For your word's sake, and according to your own heart, you have done all these great things, to make your servant know them."  
"Therefore you are great, O LORD God: for there is none like you, nor is there any God besides you, according to all that we have heard with our ears."  
"And what one nation on earth is like your people, even like Israel, whom God went to redeem for a people to himself, and to make a name for himself, and to do for you great and awesome things for your land, before your people, whom you redeemed to yourself from Egypt, from the nations and their gods?"  
"For you have confirmed to yourself your people Israel to be a people forever: and you, LORD, have become their God."  
"And now, O LORD God, the word that you have spoken concerning your servant, and concerning his house, establish it forever, and do as you have said."  
"And let your name be magnified forever, saying, 'The LORD of hosts is the God over Israel': and let the house of your servant David be established before you."  
"For you, O LORD of hosts, God of Israel, have revealed to your servant, saying, 'I will build you a house': therefore your servant has found in his heart to pray this prayer to you."  
"And now, O Lord GOD, you are that God, and your words are true, and you have promised this goodness to your servant:"  
"Therefore now let it please you to bless the house of your servant, that it may continue forever before you: for you, O Lord GOD, have spoken it: and with your blessing let the house of your servant be blessed forever."