And it came to pass in the eleventh year, on the first day of the month, that the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
"Son of man, because Tyrus has said against Jerusalem, 'Aha, she is broken, the gates of the people; she has turned to me; I shall be replenished, now that she is laid waste,'
Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I am against you, O Tyrus, and I will bring many nations against you, as the sea causes its waves to rise.
They shall destroy the walls of Tyrus and break down her towers; I will also scrape her dust from her and make her like the top of a rock.
It shall be a place for the spreading of nets in the midst of the sea, for I have spoken it, says the Lord GOD, and it shall become a spoil to the nations.
And her daughters in the field shall be slain by the sword, and they shall know that I am the LORD.
For thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I will bring upon Tyrus Nebuchadrezzar, king of Babylon, a king of kings from the north, with horses, chariots, horsemen, and a great multitude.
He shall slay your daughters in the field with the sword; he shall make a fort against you, cast a mount against you, and lift up the buckler against you.
He shall set engines of war against your walls, and with his axes, he shall break down your towers.
Due to the abundance of his horses, their dust shall cover you; your walls shall shake at the noise of the horsemen, the wheels, and the chariots when he enters your gates, as men enter a city that has been breached.
With the hooves of his horses, he shall trample all your streets; he shall slay your people with the sword, and your strongholds shall fall to the ground.
They shall plunder your riches and prey upon your merchandise; they shall break down your walls, destroy your pleasant houses, and lay your stones, timber, and dust in the midst of the water.
And I will cause the sound of your songs to cease; the sound of your harps shall no longer be heard.
I will make you like the top of a rock; you shall be a place to spread nets upon; you shall be built no more, for I, the LORD, have spoken it, says the Lord GOD.
Thus says the Lord GOD to Tyrus: Shall not the isles shake at the sound of your fall, when the wounded cry, when the slaughter occurs in your midst?
Then all the princes of the sea shall come down from their thrones, lay aside their robes, and put off their embroidered garments; they shall clothe themselves with trembling, sit upon the ground, and tremble at every moment, astonished at you.
They shall take up a lamentation for you and say, 'How have you been destroyed, you who were inhabited by seafaring men, the renowned city, strong in the sea, she and her inhabitants, who caused terror to all who dwelt there!'
Now the isles shall tremble on the day of your fall; yes, the isles in the sea shall be troubled at your departure.
For thus says the Lord GOD: When I make you a desolate city, like cities that are not inhabited; when I bring up the deep upon you, and great waters cover you;
When I bring you down with those who descend into the pit, with the people of old, and set you in the low parts of the earth, in places desolate of old, with those who go down to the pit, so that you shall not be inhabited; and I will set glory in the land of the living;
I will make you a terror, and you shall be no more; though you be sought for, you shall never be found again, says the Lord GOD.
