Thus says the LORD to His anointed, to Cyrus, whose right hand I have held, to subdue nations before him; I will loosen the loins of kings, to open before him the two-leaved gates; and the gates shall not be shut.
I will go before you and make the crooked places straight: I will break in pieces the gates of bronze and cut asunder the bars of iron.
And I will give you the treasures of darkness and hidden riches of secret places, that you may know that I, the LORD, who call you by your name, am the God of Israel.
For the sake of Jacob, My servant, and Israel, My chosen, I have even called you by your name: I have surnamed you, though you have not known Me.
I am the LORD, and there is none else; there is no God beside Me: I girded you, though you have not known Me.
That they may know from the rising of the sun and from the west that there is none beside Me. I am the LORD, and there is none else.
I form the light and create darkness; I make peace and create evil: I, the LORD, do all these things.
Drop down, O heavens, from above, and let the skies pour down righteousness; let the earth open, and let them bring forth salvation, and let righteousness spring up together; I, the LORD, have created it.
Woe to him who strives with his Maker! Let the potsherd strive with the potsherds of the earth. Shall the clay say to him who fashions it, "What are you making?" or "Your work has no hands?"
Woe to him who says to his father, "What are you begetting?" or to the woman, "What have you brought forth?"
Thus says the LORD, the Holy One of Israel, and His Maker: "Ask Me of things to come concerning My sons, and concerning the work of My hands, command Me."
I have made the earth and created man upon it; I, even My hands, have stretched out the heavens, and all their host I have commanded.
I have raised him up in righteousness, and I will direct all his ways; he shall build My city, and he shall let go My captives, not for price nor reward, says the LORD of hosts.
Thus says the LORD: "The labor of Egypt and the merchandise of Ethiopia and of the Sabeans, men of stature, shall come over to you, and they shall be yours; they shall come after you; in chains they shall come over, and they shall fall down to you; they shall make supplication to you, saying, 'Surely God is in you, and there is none else, there is no God.'"
Verily, You are a God who hides Himself, O God of Israel, the Savior.
They shall be ashamed and also confounded, all of them; they shall go to confusion together, those who make idols.
But Israel shall be saved in the LORD with an everlasting salvation; you shall not be ashamed nor confounded, world without end.
For thus says the LORD who created the heavens; God Himself who formed the earth and made it; He has established it; He created it not in vain; He formed it to be inhabited: I am the LORD, and there is none else.
I have not spoken in secret, in a dark place of the earth; I did not say to the seed of Jacob, "Seek Me in vain." I, the LORD, speak righteousness; I declare things that are right.
Assemble yourselves and come; draw near together, you who have escaped from the nations: they have no knowledge who set up the wood of their graven image and pray to a god that cannot save.
Tell them and bring them near; yes, let them take counsel together: who has declared this from ancient time? Who has told it from that time? Have I not, the LORD? And there is no God else beside Me; a just God and a Savior; there is none beside Me.
Look to Me, and be saved, all the ends of the earth; for I am God, and there is none else.
I have sworn by Myself; the word has gone out of My mouth in righteousness and shall not return: that to Me every knee shall bow, every tongue shall swear.
Surely, one shall say, "In the LORD I have righteousness and strength"; even to Him shall men come, and all who are incensed against Him shall be ashamed.
In the LORD shall all the seed of Israel be justified and shall glory.
