Righteous art thou, O LORD, when I plead with thee; yet let me discuss with thee thy judgments: Why does the way of the wicked prosper? Why are all those who deal treacherously so happy?
Thou hast planted them; indeed, they have taken root: they grow, and they bear fruit; thou art near in their mouths, but far from their hearts.
But thou, O LORD, knowest me; thou hast seen me and tested my heart toward thee: pull them out like sheep for the slaughter, and prepare them for the day of slaughter.
How long shall the land mourn, and the plants of every field wither, because of the wickedness of those who dwell therein? The beasts are consumed, and the birds; for they have said, "He shall not see our end."
If thou hast run with footmen and they have wearied thee, then how canst thou contend with horses? And if in the land of peace, wherein thou trustedst, they have wearied thee, then how wilt thou fare in the swelling of Jordan?
For even thy brethren, and the house of thy father, they have dealt treacherously with thee; indeed, they have called a multitude after thee: believe them not, though they speak fair words unto thee.
I have forsaken my house; I have left my heritage; I have given the dearly beloved of my soul into the hands of her enemies.
Mine heritage is to me as a lion in the forest; it cries out against me: therefore, I have come to hate it.
Mine heritage is to me as a speckled bird; the birds round about are against her: come, assemble all the beasts of the field, come to devour.
Many shepherds have destroyed my vineyard; they have trampled my portion underfoot; they have made my pleasant portion a desolate wilderness.
They have made it desolate, and being desolate, it mourns unto me; the whole land is made desolate because no man takes it to heart.
The spoilers have come upon all high places through the wilderness; for the sword of the LORD shall devour from one end of the land to the other: no flesh shall have peace.
They have sown wheat, but shall reap thorns; they have put themselves to pain, but shall not profit; and they shall be ashamed of their harvests because of the fierce anger of the LORD.
Thus saith the LORD against all mine evil neighbors, who touch the inheritance which I have caused my people Israel to inherit: Behold, I will pluck them out of their land, and pluck out the house of Judah from among them.
And it shall come to pass, after I have plucked them out, I will return and have compassion on them, and will bring them back, every man to his heritage, and every man to his land.
And it shall come to pass, if they will diligently learn the ways of my people, to swear by my name, "The LORD liveth," as they taught my people to swear by Baal; then shall they be built in the midst of my people.
But if they will not obey, I will utterly pluck up and destroy that nation, saith the LORD.
