The burden of Babylon, which Isaiah, the son of Amoz, saw.  
Lift up a banner on the high mountain, exalt your voice to them, and wave your hand so they may enter the gates of the nobles.  
I have commanded my sanctified ones; I have also called my mighty ones for my anger, even those who rejoice in my majesty.  
The noise of a multitude in the mountains, like that of a great people; a tumultuous noise of the kingdoms of nations gathered together: the LORD of hosts is mustering the army for battle.  
They come from a distant country, from the ends of heaven, even the LORD, and the weapons of His indignation, to destroy the whole land.  
Howl, for the day of the LORD is near; it will come as a destruction from the Almighty.  
Therefore, all hands will grow weak, and every man's heart will melt.  
They will be terrified; anguish and sorrow will seize them; they will be in pain like a woman in labor; they will be astonished at one another; their faces will burn like flames.  
Behold, the day of the LORD comes, cruel, with wrath and fierce anger, to make the land desolate; and He will destroy the sinners from it.  
For the stars of heaven and their constellations will not give their light; the sun will be darkened at its rising, and the moon will not shine.  
And I will punish the world for its evil, and the wicked for their iniquity; I will put an end to the arrogance of the proud and will humble the haughtiness of the ruthless.  
I will make a man more precious than fine gold; even a man more than the golden wedge of Ophir.  
Therefore, I will shake the heavens, and the earth will be removed from its place, in the wrath of the LORD of hosts, and in the day of His fierce anger.  
And it will be like a hunted gazelle, and like sheep with no one to gather them: each will turn to his own people, and everyone will flee to his own land.  
Everyone who is found will be thrust through; and everyone who is joined to them will fall by the sword.  
Their children will be dashed to pieces before their eyes; their houses will be plundered, and their wives will be ravished.  
Behold, I will stir up the Medes against them, who will not value silver; and as for gold, they will not delight in it.  
Their bows will also dash the young men to pieces; they will have no pity on the fruit of the womb; their eyes will not spare children.  
And Babylon, the glory of kingdoms, the splendor of the Chaldeans, will be like when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah.  
It will never be inhabited, nor will it be dwelt in from generation to generation; neither will the Arabian pitch his tent there, nor will shepherds make their folds there.  
But wild beasts of the desert will lie there, and their houses will be filled with howling creatures; owls will dwell there, and satyrs will dance there.  
And the wild beasts of the islands will cry in their desolate houses, and dragons in their pleasant palaces; her time is near to come, and her days will not be prolonged.