And King Zedekiah, the son of Josiah, reigned in place of Coniah, the son of Jehoiakim, whom Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, appointed as king in the land of Judah.  
But neither he, nor his servants, nor the people of the land listened to the words of the LORD, which He spoke through the prophet Jeremiah.  
Zedekiah the king sent Jehucal, the son of Shelemiah, and Zephaniah, the son of Maaseiah the priest, to the prophet Jeremiah, saying, "Pray now to the LORD our God for us."  
Now Jeremiah came and went among the people, for they had not imprisoned him.  
Then Pharaoh's army came out of Egypt, and when the Chaldeans besieging Jerusalem heard news of them, they withdrew from Jerusalem.  
Then the word of the LORD came to the prophet Jeremiah, saying,  
"Thus says the LORD, the God of Israel: Thus shall you say to the king of Judah, who sent you to inquire of me: Behold, Pharaoh's army, which has come to help you, shall return to Egypt, to their own land.  
And the Chaldeans shall return, and fight against this city, and capture it, and burn it with fire.  
Thus says the LORD: Do not deceive yourselves, saying, 'The Chaldeans will surely depart from us,' for they will not depart.  
For even if you had struck down the entire army of the Chaldeans that fights against you, and only wounded men remained among them, they would rise up every man in his tent and burn this city with fire."  
And it came to pass that when the army of the Chaldeans withdrew from Jerusalem for fear of Pharaoh's army,  
Then Jeremiah went out of Jerusalem to go into the land of Benjamin, to separate himself there in the midst of the people.  
And when he was at the gate of Benjamin, a captain of the guard was there, whose name was Irijah, the son of Shelemiah, the son of Hananiah; and he seized Jeremiah the prophet, saying, "You are defecting to the Chaldeans."  
Then Jeremiah said, "That is false; I am not defecting to the Chaldeans." But Irijah did not listen to him, so he took Jeremiah and brought him to the princes.  
Therefore, the princes were angry with Jeremiah, and they struck him and put him in prison in the house of Jonathan the scribe, for they had made that the prison.  
When Jeremiah entered the dungeon and the cells, he remained there many days;  
Then King Zedekiah sent for him and took him out. The king asked him secretly in his house, "Is there any word from the LORD?" And Jeremiah said, "There is: for you shall be delivered into the hand of the king of Babylon."  
Moreover, Jeremiah said to King Zedekiah, "What have I done to offend you, or your servants, or this people, that you have put me in prison?  
Where are now your prophets who prophesied to you, saying, 'The king of Babylon shall not come against you, nor against this land?'  
Therefore, hear now, I pray you, O my lord the king: let my supplication be accepted before you; do not cause me to return to the house of Jonathan the scribe, lest I die there."  
Then King Zedekiah commanded that they should confine Jeremiah in the court of the prison, and that they should give him daily a piece of bread from the bakers' street, until all the bread in the city was gone. Thus, Jeremiah remained in the court of the prison.