A prayer of Habakkuk the prophet upon Shigionoth.
O LORD, I have heard Your message, and I was filled with fear: O LORD, revive Your work in the midst of the years; in the midst of the years, make it known; in Your wrath, remember mercy.
God came from Teman, and the Holy One from Mount Paran. Selah. His glory covered the heavens, and the earth was filled with His praise.
And His brightness was like the light; He had horns coming out of His hand, and there was the hiding of His power.
Before Him went pestilence, and burning coals went forth at His feet.
He stood and measured the earth; He looked and shattered the nations; the everlasting mountains were scattered, and the perpetual hills bowed down; His ways are everlasting.
I saw the tents of Cushan in distress, and the curtains of the land of Midian trembled.
Was the LORD displeased with the rivers? Was Your anger against the rivers? Was Your wrath against the sea, that You rode upon Your horses and Your chariots of salvation?
Your bow was made bare, according to the oaths of the tribes, even Your word. Selah. You cleaved the earth with rivers.
The mountains saw You and trembled; the overflowing waters passed by; the deep uttered its voice and lifted up its hands on high.
The sun and moon stood still in their habitation; at the light of Your arrows, they went, and at the shining of Your glittering spear.
You marched through the land in indignation; You threshed the nations in anger.
You went forth for the salvation of Your people, even for salvation with Your anointed; You wounded the head of the house of the wicked, uncovering the foundation to the neck. Selah.
You struck through with His staves the head of His villages; they came out like a whirlwind to scatter me; their rejoicing was like devouring the poor secretly.
You walked through the sea with Your horses, through the heap of great waters.
When I heard, my belly trembled; my lips quivered at the sound; rottenness entered my bones, and I trembled within myself, that I might rest in the day of trouble; when He comes up against the people, He will invade them with His troops.
Though the fig tree does not blossom, and there is no fruit on the vines; the labor of the olive fails, and the fields yield no food; the flock is cut off from the fold, and there are no herds in the stalls:
Yet I will rejoice in the LORD; I will take joy in the God of my salvation.
The LORD God is my strength; He will make my feet like those of a deer, and He will make me walk upon my high places. To the chief musician on my stringed instruments.
