The preparations of the heart in a person, and the response of the tongue, come from the LORD.  
All a person's ways seem pure in their own eyes; but the LORD weighs the spirit.  
Commit your actions to the LORD, and your plans will be established.  
The LORD has made everything for His purpose: even the wicked for the day of judgment.  
Everyone who is proud in heart is detestable to the LORD; though they join forces, they will not go unpunished.  
By mercy and truth, iniquity is atoned for; and by the fear of the LORD, people turn away from evil.  
When a person's ways please the LORD, He makes even their enemies be at peace with them.  
Better is a little with righteousness than great profits without justice.  
A person's heart plans their way, but the LORD directs their steps.  
A divine decree is on the lips of the king; his mouth does not transgress in judgment.  
A just weight and balance are the LORD's; all the weights in the bag are His work.  
It is detestable for kings to commit wickedness, for the throne is established by righteousness.  
Righteous lips are the delight of kings, and they love those who speak what is right.  
The wrath of a king is like messengers of death; but a wise person will appease it.  
In the light of the king's countenance is life; and his favor is like a cloud of the latter rain.  
How much better it is to gain wisdom than gold! and to gain understanding is to be chosen over silver!  
The path of the upright is to turn away from evil; whoever guards their way preserves their soul.  
Pride goes before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall.  
It is better to be of a humble spirit with the lowly than to share the spoils with the proud.  
Whoever handles a matter wisely will find good; and whoever trusts in the LORD is happy.  
The wise in heart will be called discerning, and sweetness of speech increases learning.  
Understanding is a fountain of life to those who have it; but the instruction of fools is folly.  
The heart of the wise instructs their mouth and adds learning to their lips.  
Pleasant words are like a honeycomb, sweet to the soul and health to the bones.  
There is a way that seems right to a person, but its end is the way of death.  
Whoever labors labors for themselves; for their mouth craves it of them.  
An ungodly person digs up evil, and their lips are like a burning fire.  
A perverse person sows strife, and a whisperer separates close friends.  
A violent person entices their neighbor and leads them down a path that is not good.  
They shut their eyes to devise perverse things; moving their lips, they bring evil to pass.  
The gray head is a crown of glory if it is found in the way of righteousness.  
Whoever is slow to anger is better than the mighty; and whoever rules their spirit is better than one who takes a city.  
The lot is cast into the lap, but the whole disposing of it is from the LORD.