In the early days of Jehoiakim's reign, the son of Josiah, king of Judah, this message came from the LORD, saying,
"Thus says the LORD: Stand in the courtyard of the LORD's house and speak to all the cities of Judah that come to worship in the LORD's house, all the words that I command you to speak to them; do not omit a word.
Perhaps they will listen and turn from their evil ways, so that I may relent from the disaster I intend to bring upon them because of their wickedness.
And you shall say to them, 'Thus says the LORD: If you do not listen to me and walk in my law, which I have set before you,
and do not listen to the words of my servants the prophets, whom I sent to you, rising up early and sending them, but you have not listened;
then I will make this house like Shiloh and this city a curse to all the nations of the earth.'
So the priests, the prophets, and all the people heard Jeremiah speaking these words in the house of the LORD.
When Jeremiah finished speaking all that the LORD had commanded him to say to the people, the priests and the prophets and all the people seized him, saying, 'You shall surely die.'
'Why have you prophesied in the name of the LORD, saying, "This house shall be like Shiloh, and this city shall be desolate without an inhabitant?"' And all the people gathered against Jeremiah in the house of the LORD.
When the princes of Judah heard these things, they came up from the king's house to the house of the LORD and sat down at the entry of the new gate of the LORD's house.
Then the priests and the prophets spoke to the princes and all the people, saying, 'This man deserves to die, for he has prophesied against this city, as you have heard with your own ears.'
Jeremiah then spoke to all the princes and all the people, saying, 'The LORD sent me to prophesy against this house and against this city all the words that you have heard.
Therefore, amend your ways and your deeds, and obey the voice of the LORD your God, and the LORD will relent from the evil that He has pronounced against you.
As for me, behold, I am in your hands; do with me as seems good and right to you.
But know for certain that if you put me to death, you will bring innocent blood upon yourselves, this city, and its inhabitants, for truly the LORD has sent me to speak all these words in your hearing.'
Then the princes and all the people said to the priests and the prophets, 'This man is not worthy to die, for he has spoken to us in the name of the LORD our God.'
Then certain elders of the land rose up and spoke to all the assembly of the people, saying,
'Micah the Morasthite prophesied in the days of Hezekiah, king of Judah, and spoke to all the people of Judah, saying, "Thus says the LORD of hosts: Zion shall be plowed like a field, and Jerusalem shall become heaps, and the mountain of the house like the high places of a forest."
Did Hezekiah, king of Judah, and all Judah put him to death? Did he not fear the LORD and plead with the LORD, and the LORD relented from the disaster He had pronounced against them? Thus, we might bring great evil upon ourselves.'
There was also a man who prophesied in the name of the LORD, Urijah the son of Shemaiah from Kirjathjearim, who prophesied against this city and this land according to all the words of Jeremiah.
When King Jehoiakim, along with all his mighty men and all the princes, heard his words, the king sought to put him to death. But when Urijah heard it, he was afraid, fled, and went to Egypt.
King Jehoiakim sent men to Egypt, namely Elnathan the son of Achbor, and certain men with him to Egypt.
They brought Urijah out of Egypt and brought him to King Jehoiakim, who killed him with the sword and cast his dead body into the graves of the common people.
Nevertheless, the hand of Ahikam the son of Shaphan was with Jeremiah, so that they should not give him into the hands of the people to put him to death.
