And it came to pass in those days that a decree went out from Caesar Augustus for all the world to be taxed.  
(This taxing was first implemented when Cyrenius was governor of Syria.)  
And everyone went to be taxed, each to their own city.  
Joseph also went up from Galilee, out of the city of Nazareth, into Judaea, to the city of David, called Bethlehem; (because he belonged to the house and lineage of David.)  
He went to be taxed with Mary, his betrothed wife, who was heavily pregnant.  
While they were there, the days were fulfilled for her to give birth.  
She brought forth her firstborn son, wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger, because there was no room for them in the inn.  
In the same region, there were shepherds living in the fields, keeping watch over their flock by night.  
Suddenly, the angel of the Lord appeared to them, and the glory of the Lord shone around them, and they were very afraid.  
The angel said to them, "Do not be afraid; for behold, I bring you good news of great joy that will be for all people.  
For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, who is Christ the Lord.  
And this will be a sign for you: You will find the baby wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger."  
And suddenly, there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God and saying,  
"Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, goodwill toward men."  
When the angels had gone away from them into heaven, the shepherds said to one another, "Let us now go to Bethlehem and see this thing that has happened, which the Lord has made known to us."  
They hurried and found Mary, Joseph, and the baby lying in a manger.  
After seeing him, they made known the saying that had been told them concerning this child.  
All who heard it wondered at what the shepherds told them.  
But Mary treasured all these things and pondered them in her heart.  
The shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all they had heard and seen, as it had been told to them.  
When eight days were completed for the circumcision of the child, he was named JESUS, as the angel had named him before he was conceived in the womb.  
When the days of her purification according to the law of Moses were completed, they brought him to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord;  
(As it is written in the law of the LORD, "Every male that opens the womb shall be called holy to the Lord;")  
And to offer a sacrifice according to what is said in the law of the Lord, a pair of turtledoves or two young pigeons.  
And behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon; he was righteous and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Spirit was upon him.  
It had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ.  
He came by the Spirit into the temple; and when the parents brought in the child Jesus to do for him according to the custom of the law,  
He took him up in his arms, blessed God, and said,  
"Lord, now you are letting your servant depart in peace, according to your word:  
For my eyes have seen your salvation,  
Which you have prepared before the face of all people;  
A light to bring revelation to the Gentiles, and the glory of your people Israel."  
Joseph and his mother marveled at the things spoken of him.  
Simeon blessed them and said to Mary, his mother, "Behold, this child is destined for the fall and rising of many in Israel, and for a sign that will be spoken against;  
(Yes, a sword will pierce through your own soul also,) that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed."  
There was also Anna, a prophetess, the daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Asher; she was of great age and had lived with a husband seven years from her virginity;  
And she was a widow of about eighty-four years, who did not depart from the temple but served God with fastings and prayers night and day.  
Coming up at that very hour, she gave thanks to the Lord and spoke of him to all who were looking for redemption in Jerusalem.  
When they had performed all things according to the law of the Lord, they returned to Galilee, to their own city, Nazareth.  
The child grew and became strong in spirit, filled with wisdom, and the grace of God was upon him.  
His parents went to Jerusalem every year at the feast of the Passover.  
When he was twelve years old, they went up to Jerusalem according to the custom of the feast.  
When they had finished the days, as they returned, the child Jesus stayed behind in Jerusalem, and Joseph and his mother did not know it.  
But they, supposing him to be in the company, went a day's journey and sought him among their relatives and acquaintances.  
When they did not find him, they returned to Jerusalem, seeking him.  
After three days, they found him in the temple, sitting in the midst of the teachers, both listening to them and asking them questions.  
All who heard him were astonished at his understanding and answers.  
When they saw him, they were amazed; and his mother said to him, "Son, why have you treated us this way? Behold, your father and I have sought you anxiously."  
He said to them, "Why were you seeking me? Did you not know that I must be about my Father's business?"  
But they did not understand the statement which he spoke to them.  
He went down with them and came to Nazareth and was subject to them; but his mother kept all these sayings in her heart.  
And Jesus increased in wisdom and stature, and in favor with God and man.