In the tenth year, in the tenth month, on the twelfth day of the month, the word of the LORD came to me, saying,  
"Son of man, set your face against Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and prophesy against him and all of Egypt.  
Speak and say, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I am against you, Pharaoh, king of Egypt, the great dragon that lies in the midst of his rivers, who has said, "My river is my own, and I have made it for myself."  
But I will put hooks in your jaws, and I will cause the fish of your rivers to cling to your scales. I will bring you up out of the midst of your rivers, and all the fish of your rivers shall cling to your scales.  
I will leave you thrown into the wilderness, you and all the fish of your rivers; you shall fall upon the open fields; you shall not be gathered nor brought together. I have given you for food to the beasts of the field and to the birds of the heavens.  
And all the inhabitants of Egypt shall know that I am the LORD, because they have been a staff of reed to the house of Israel.  
When they took hold of you by your hand, you broke and tore all their shoulders; and when they leaned upon you, you broke and made all their loins unsteady.  
Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I will bring a sword upon you and cut off man and beast from you.  
And the land of Egypt shall be desolate and waste; and they shall know that I am the LORD, because he has said, "The river is mine, and I have made it."  
Behold, therefore, I am against you and against your rivers, and I will make the land of Egypt utterly waste and desolate, from the tower of Syene to the border of Ethiopia.  
No foot of man shall pass through it, nor foot of beast shall pass through it; it shall not be inhabited for forty years.  
I will make the land of Egypt desolate in the midst of the desolate countries, and her cities among the cities that are laid waste shall be desolate for forty years. I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations and disperse them throughout the countries.  
Yet thus says the Lord GOD: At the end of forty years, I will gather the Egyptians from the peoples where they were scattered.  
I will bring back the captives of Egypt and cause them to return to the land of Pathros, to the land of their habitation; and they shall be there a lowly kingdom.  
It shall be the lowest of the kingdoms; it shall no longer exalt itself above the nations, for I will diminish them so that they shall no longer rule over the nations.  
It shall no longer be the confidence of the house of Israel, which brings their iniquity to remembrance when they look after them; but they shall know that I am the Lord GOD.  
And it came to pass in the twenty-seventh year, in the first month, on the first day of the month, the word of the LORD came to me, saying,  
"Son of man, Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon, made his army serve a great service against Tyre; every head was made bald, and every shoulder was peeled. Yet he had no wages, nor did his army, for Tyre, for the service they had rendered against it.  
Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I will give the land of Egypt to Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon; he shall take her multitude, and take her spoil, and take her prey; and it shall be the wages for his army.  
I have given him the land of Egypt for his labor, for which he served against it, because they worked for me, says the Lord GOD.  
In that day, I will cause the horn of the house of Israel to bud forth, and I will give you the opening of the mouth in the midst of them; and they shall know that I am the LORD."