Let every individual submit to the governing authorities, for there is no authority except that which is established by God; the authorities that exist are appointed by Him.  
Therefore, whoever opposes the authority resists what God has instituted, and those who resist will bring judgment upon themselves.  
For rulers are not a threat to those who do good, but to those who do evil. Do you want to be unafraid of the authority? Do what is good, and you will receive praise from it.  
For the ruler is God’s servant for your good. But if you do wrong, be afraid; for he does not carry the sword for no reason. He is God’s servant, an agent of wrath to bring punishment on the wrongdoer.  
Therefore, it is necessary to submit, not only because of possible punishment but also as a matter of conscience.  
This is also why you pay taxes, for the authorities are God’s servants, who give their full time to governing.  
Give everyone what you owe them: If you owe taxes, pay taxes; if revenue, then revenue; if respect, then respect; if honor, then honor.  
Owe no one anything, except to love one another, for whoever loves others has fulfilled the law.  
The commandments, "You shall not commit adultery," "You shall not murder," "You shall not steal," "You shall not bear false witness," "You shall not covet," and any other commandment, are summed up in this one rule: "Love your neighbor as yourself."  
Love does no harm to a neighbor. Therefore, love is the fulfillment of the law.  
And do this, understanding the present time: The hour has already come for you to wake up from your slumber, because our salvation is nearer now than when we first believed.  
The night is nearly over; the day is almost here. So let us put aside the deeds of darkness and put on the armor of light.  
Let us behave decently, as in the daytime, not in carousing and drunkenness, not in sexual immorality and debauchery, not in dissension and jealousy.  
Rather, clothe yourselves with the Lord Jesus Christ, and do not think about how to gratify the desires of the flesh.