For, behold, in those days and at that time, when I shall restore the captivity of Judah and Jerusalem,
I will also gather all nations and bring them down into the valley of Jehoshaphat, where I will plead with them for my people and my heritage Israel, whom they have scattered among the nations and divided my land.
They have cast lots for my people, giving a boy for a harlot and selling a girl for wine, that they might drink.
And what do you have to do with me, O Tyre and Zidon, and all the coasts of Palestine? Will you offer me a recompense? If you do, swiftly and speedily will I return your recompense upon your own head;
Because you have taken my silver and my gold and carried into your temples my precious treasures.
The children of Judah and the children of Jerusalem you have sold to the Grecians, to remove them far from their borders.
Behold, I will raise them from the place where you have sold them and will return your recompense upon your own head.
I will sell your sons and daughters into the hands of the children of Judah, and they shall sell them to the Sabeans, to a people far off; for the LORD has spoken it.
Proclaim this among the Gentiles: Prepare for war, awaken the mighty men, let all the men of war draw near; let them come up.
Beat your plowshares into swords and your pruning hooks into spears; let the weak say, "I am strong."
Assemble yourselves and come, all you heathen; gather yourselves together round about; cause your mighty ones to come down, O LORD.
Let the heathen be awakened and come up to the valley of Jehoshaphat; for there I will sit to judge all the heathen round about.
Put in the sickle, for the harvest is ripe; come, get down, for the press is full, the vats overflow; for their wickedness is great.
Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision; for the day of the LORD is near in the valley of decision.
The sun and the moon shall be darkened, and the stars shall withdraw their shining.
The LORD shall roar out of Zion and utter his voice from Jerusalem; the heavens and the earth shall shake; but the LORD will be the hope of his people and the strength of the children of Israel.
So you shall know that I am the LORD your God dwelling in Zion, my holy mountain; then Jerusalem shall be holy, and no strangers shall pass through her anymore.
And it shall come to pass in that day that the mountains shall drop down new wine, the hills shall flow with milk, and all the rivers of Judah shall flow with waters; a fountain shall come forth from the house of the LORD and shall water the valley of Shittim.
Egypt shall be a desolation, and Edom shall be a desolate wilderness, for the violence against the children of Judah, because they have shed innocent blood in their land.
But Judah shall dwell forever, and Jerusalem from generation to generation.
For I will cleanse their blood that I have not cleansed; for the LORD dwells in Zion.
