And it came to pass, when he had finished speaking to Saul, that the soul of Jonathan was intertwined with the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as he loved his own soul.  
And Saul took him that day, and would not allow him to return home to his father's house.  
Then Jonathan and David made a covenant, for he loved him as he loved his own soul.  
And Jonathan removed the robe that was upon him, and gave it to David, along with his garments, his sword, his bow, and his belt.  
And David went out wherever Saul sent him, and he acted wisely: and Saul appointed him over the men of war, and he was well-regarded in the eyes of all the people, and also in the eyes of Saul's servants.  
And it came to pass, as they returned, when David came back from defeating the Philistine, that the women came out from all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet King Saul, with tambourines, with joy, and with musical instruments.  
And the women answered one another as they played, saying, "Saul has slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands."  
And Saul was very angry, and the saying displeased him; and he said, "They have credited David with ten thousands, but me with only thousands: and what more can he have but the kingdom?"  
And from that day on, Saul looked at David with suspicion.  
And it came to pass on the next day, that an evil spirit from God came upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house: and David played his harp as he did at other times: and there was a javelin in Saul's hand.  
And Saul threw the javelin, saying, "I will pin David to the wall with it." But David evaded him twice.  
And Saul was afraid of David, because the LORD was with him, and had departed from Saul.  
Therefore, Saul removed him from his presence and made him a captain over a thousand; and he went out and came in before the people.  
And David acted wisely in all his ways; and the LORD was with him.  
When Saul saw that he acted very wisely, he became afraid of him.  
But all Israel and Judah loved David, because he went out and came in before them.  
And Saul said to David, "Behold, my elder daughter Merab, I will give her to you as a wife: only be valiant for me, and fight the LORD's battles." For Saul thought, "Let not my hand be upon him, but let the hand of the Philistines be upon him."  
And David said to Saul, "Who am I? and what is my life, or my father's family in Israel, that I should be the king's son-in-law?"  
But it came to pass at the time when Merab, Saul's daughter, should have been given to David, that she was given to Adriel the Meholathite as a wife.  
And Michal, Saul's daughter, loved David: and they told Saul, and the matter pleased him.  
And Saul said, "I will give her to him, that she may be a trap for him, and that the hand of the Philistines may be against him." Therefore, Saul said to David, "You shall be my son-in-law today."  
And Saul commanded his servants, saying, "Speak to David privately, and say, 'Behold, the king delights in you, and all his servants love you: now therefore, be the king's son-in-law.'"  
And Saul's servants spoke those words in David's ears. And David said, "Do you think it is a trivial thing to be the king's son-in-law, seeing that I am a poor man and lightly esteemed?"  
And the servants of Saul told him, saying, "In this manner David spoke."  
And Saul said, "Thus shall you say to David, 'The king desires no dowry, but a hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to take vengeance on the king's enemies.'" But Saul intended to have David fall by the hand of the Philistines.  
And when his servants told David these words, it pleased David to be the king's son-in-law: and the days had not yet expired.  
Therefore, David arose and went, he and his men, and killed two hundred Philistines; and David brought their foreskins, and they gave them in full count to the king, that he might be the king's son-in-law. And Saul gave him Michal, his daughter, as a wife.  
And Saul saw and knew that the LORD was with David, and that Michal, Saul's daughter, loved him.  
And Saul was even more afraid of David; and Saul became David's enemy continually.  
Then the princes of the Philistines went out to battle: and it came to pass, after they went out, that David behaved himself more wisely than all the servants of Saul; so that his name became highly esteemed.