And when the Sabbath had passed, Mary Magdalene, Mary the mother of James, and Salome purchased sweet spices to anoint him.  
Very early in the morning on the first day of the week, they arrived at the tomb as the sun was rising.  
They said to one another, "Who will roll away the stone from the entrance of the tomb for us?"  
When they looked, they saw that the stone had been rolled away, for it was very large.  
Upon entering the tomb, they saw a young man sitting on the right side, dressed in a long white robe; they were alarmed.  
He said to them, "Do not be alarmed; you are looking for Jesus of Nazareth, who was crucified. He has risen; he is not here. See the place where they laid him."  
"But go, tell his disciples and Peter that he is going ahead of you into Galilee. There you will see him, just as he told you."  
They went out quickly and fled from the tomb, trembling and astonished; they said nothing to anyone, for they were afraid.  
Now, when Jesus rose early on the first day of the week, he first appeared to Mary Magdalene, from whom he had cast out seven demons.  
She went and told those who had been with him, as they mourned and wept.  
When they heard that he was alive and had been seen by her, they did not believe it.  
Afterward, he appeared in a different form to two of them as they were walking in the country.  
They returned and reported it to the rest, but they did not believe them either.  
Later, he appeared to the eleven as they were eating and rebuked them for their unbelief and hardness of heart, because they did not believe those who had seen him after he had risen.  
He said to them, "Go into all the world and preach the gospel to all creation."  
Whoever believes and is baptized will be saved, but whoever does not believe will be condemned.  
And these signs will accompany those who believe: In my name, they will drive out demons; they will speak in new tongues;  
They will pick up snakes; and when they drink deadly poison, it will not hurt them at all; they will lay hands on the sick, and they will recover.  
After the Lord Jesus had spoken to them, he was taken up into heaven and sat at the right hand of God.  
Then the disciples went out and preached everywhere, and the Lord worked with them and confirmed his word by the signs that accompanied it. Amen.