How does the city sit in solitude, once filled with people! How has she become like a widow! She who was great among the nations, and a princess among the provinces, how has she become a tributary!  
She weeps bitterly in the night, and her tears are on her cheeks: among all her lovers, there is none to comfort her; all her friends have dealt treacherously with her, and they have become her enemies.  
Judah has gone into captivity due to affliction and great servitude; she dwells among the heathen and finds no rest: all her persecutors have overtaken her in the narrow places.  
The ways of Zion mourn, for no one comes to the solemn feasts; all her gates are desolate: her priests sigh, her virgins are afflicted, and she is in bitterness.  
Her adversaries are the chief, and her enemies prosper; for the LORD has afflicted her because of the multitude of her transgressions: her children have gone into captivity before the enemy.  
And from the daughter of Zion, all her beauty has departed: her princes have become like deer that find no pasture, and they have gone without strength before the pursuer.  
Jerusalem remembered in the days of her affliction and miseries all the pleasant things she had in the days of old, when her people fell into the hands of the enemy, and no one helped her: her adversaries saw her and mocked her sabbaths.  
Jerusalem has grievously sinned; therefore, she is removed: all who honored her now despise her, for they have seen her nakedness: yes, she sighs and turns away.  
Her filthiness is in her skirts; she does not remember her last end; therefore, she has come down astonishingly: she has no comforter. O LORD, behold my affliction, for the enemy has magnified himself.  
The adversary has spread his hand over all her pleasant things; for she has seen that the heathen entered her sanctuary, whom you commanded should not enter your congregation.  
All her people sigh; they seek bread; they have given their pleasant things for food to relieve their souls: see, O LORD, and consider; for I have become vile.  
Is it nothing to you, all you who pass by? Behold, and see if there is any sorrow like my sorrow, which has been inflicted upon me, with which the LORD has afflicted me in the day of his fierce anger.  
From above, he has sent fire into my bones, and it prevails against them: he has spread a net for my feet, he has turned me back: he has made me desolate and faint all day long.  
The yoke of my transgressions is bound by his hand; they are wreathed and come up upon my neck: he has made my strength fail; the LORD has delivered me into their hands, from which I am unable to rise.  
The LORD has trampled all my mighty men in the midst of me: he has called an assembly against me to crush my young men: the LORD has trampled the virgin, the daughter of Judah, as in a winepress.  
For these things I weep; my eye, my eye runs down with water, because the comforter who should relieve my soul is far from me: my children are desolate because the enemy has prevailed.  
Zion stretches out her hands, and there is none to comfort her: the LORD has commanded concerning Jacob that his adversaries should be round about him: Jerusalem is like a menstruous woman among them.  
The LORD is righteous; for I have rebelled against his commandment: hear, I pray you, all people, and behold my sorrow: my virgins and my young men have gone into captivity.  
I called for my lovers, but they deceived me: my priests and my elders have perished in the city while they sought their food to relieve their souls.  
Behold, O LORD; for I am in distress: my bowels are troubled; my heart is turned within me; for I have grievously rebelled: abroad the sword bereaves, at home there is only death.  
They have heard that I sigh; there is none to comfort me: all my enemies have heard of my trouble; they are glad that you have done it: you will bring the day that you have called, and they shall be like unto me.  
Let all their wickedness come before you; and do unto them as you have done unto me for all my transgressions: for my sighs are many, and my heart is faint.