The word of the LORD also came to me, saying,  
You shall not take a wife, nor shall you have sons or daughters in this place.  
For thus says the LORD concerning the sons and daughters born in this place, and concerning their mothers who bore them, and their fathers who begot them in this land:  
They shall die of grievous deaths; they shall not be lamented; neither shall they be buried; but they shall be like dung on the face of the earth. They shall be consumed by the sword and by famine; their carcasses shall be food for the birds of the air and the beasts of the earth.  
For thus says the LORD, Do not enter the house of mourning, nor go to lament or bemoan them; for I have taken my peace from this people, says the LORD, even lovingkindness and mercies.  
Both the great and the small shall die in this land; they shall not be buried, nor shall anyone lament for them, nor cut themselves, nor make themselves bald for them.  
Neither shall anyone tear themselves for them in mourning, to comfort them for the dead; nor shall anyone give them the cup of consolation to drink for their father or mother.  
You shall not go into the house of feasting, to sit with them to eat and drink.  
For thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Behold, I will cause the voice of mirth, the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom, and the voice of the bride to cease from this place in your sight and in your days.  
And it shall come to pass, when you show this people all these words, they shall say to you, Why has the LORD pronounced all this great evil against us? What is our iniquity? What is our sin that we have committed against the LORD our God?  
Then you shall say to them, Because your fathers have forsaken me, says the LORD, and have walked after other gods, and have served and worshipped them, and have forsaken me, and have not kept my law;  
And you have done worse than your fathers; for behold, each of you walks after the imagination of his evil heart, so that you do not listen to me.  
Therefore, I will cast you out of this land into a land that you do not know, neither you nor your fathers; and there you shall serve other gods day and night, where I will not show you favor.  
Therefore, behold, the days are coming, says the LORD, when it shall no longer be said, The LORD lives, who brought up the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt;  
But, The LORD lives, who brought up the children of Israel from the land of the north, and from all the lands where I had driven them; and I will bring them back to their land that I gave to their fathers.  
Behold, I will send for many fishers, says the LORD, and they shall fish for them; and afterward, I will send for many hunters, and they shall hunt them from every mountain, and from every hill, and out of the holes of the rocks.  
For my eyes are upon all their ways; they are not hidden from my face, nor is their iniquity hidden from my eyes.  
And first, I will recompense their iniquity and their sin double; because they have defiled my land, they have filled my inheritance with the carcasses of their detestable and abominable things.  
O LORD, my strength, my fortress, and my refuge in the day of affliction, the Gentiles shall come to you from the ends of the earth, and shall say, Surely our fathers have inherited lies, vanity, and things in which there is no profit.  
Shall a man make gods for himself, and they are no gods?  
Therefore, behold, I will cause them to know this time; I will cause them to know my hand and my might; and they shall know that my name is The LORD.