Then Job responded and said,
I know this to be true: but how can a man be justified before God?
If he wishes to argue with Him, he cannot answer Him even one out of a thousand.
He is wise in heart and mighty in strength; who has hardened himself against Him and prospered?
He removes mountains without their knowledge; He overturns them in His anger.
He shakes the earth from its place, and its pillars tremble.
He commands the sun, and it does not rise; He seals up the stars.
He alone spreads out the heavens and walks on the waves of the sea.
He makes Arcturus, Orion, and Pleiades, and the chambers of the south.
He performs great things beyond understanding; yes, and wonders without number.
Behold, He passes by me, and I do not see Him; He moves on, but I do not perceive Him.
Look, He takes away; who can stop Him? Who will say to Him, "What are You doing?"
If God does not withdraw His anger, the proud helpers bow beneath Him.
How much less can I answer Him and choose my words to argue with Him?
Whom, even if I were righteous, I would not answer; I would plead with my Judge.
If I called and He answered me, I would not believe that He had listened to my voice.
For He crushes me with a storm and increases my wounds without cause.
He does not allow me to catch my breath but fills me with bitterness.
If I speak of strength, behold, He is strong; and if of judgment, who can set a time for me to plead?
If I justify myself, my own mouth will condemn me; if I say, "I am perfect," it will also prove me perverse.
Though I were perfect, I would not know my soul; I would despise my life.
This is one thing, therefore I said it: He destroys both the blameless and the wicked.
If the scourge kills suddenly, He laughs at the trial of the innocent.
The earth is given into the hand of the wicked; He covers the faces of its judges; if not, where is He, and who is He?
Now my days are swifter than a messenger; they flee away, they see no good.
They pass by like swift ships, like the eagle that hastens to its prey.
If I say, "I will forget my complaint, I will put away my heaviness, and comfort myself,"
I am afraid of all my sorrows; I know that You will not hold me innocent.
If I am wicked, why then do I labor in vain?
If I wash myself with snow water and make my hands as clean as possible,
Yet You will plunge me into the ditch, and my own clothes will abhor me.
For He is not a man, as I am, that I should answer Him, and we should come together in judgment.
Neither is there any mediator between us, who might lay his hand upon us both.
Let Him take His rod away from me, and let not His fear terrify me;
Then I would speak, and not fear Him; but it is not so with me.
