Moreover, the word of the LORD came to me, saying,  
"Son of man, set your face against Mount Seir and prophesy against it,  
And say to it, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, O Mount Seir, I am against you. I will stretch out my hand against you and make you most desolate.  
I will lay your cities waste, and you shall be desolate; then you shall know that I am the LORD.  
Because you have had a perpetual hatred and have shed the blood of the children of Israel by the force of the sword in their time of calamity, when their iniquity had an end:  
Therefore, as I live, says the Lord GOD, I will prepare you for blood, and blood shall pursue you; since you have not hated blood, even blood shall pursue you.  
Thus, I will make Mount Seir most desolate and cut off from it him who passes through and him who returns.  
I will fill your mountains with slain men; in your hills, valleys, and all your rivers, they shall fall who are slain by the sword.  
I will make you a perpetual desolation, and your cities shall not return; then you shall know that I am the LORD.  
Because you have said, 'These two nations and these two countries shall be mine, and we will possess them,' whereas the LORD was there:  
Therefore, as I live, says the Lord GOD, I will act according to your anger and your envy, which you have shown out of your hatred against them; and I will make myself known among them when I have judged you.  
And you shall know that I am the LORD and that I have heard all your blasphemies which you have spoken against the mountains of Israel, saying, 'They are laid desolate; they are given to us to consume.'  
Thus, with your mouth, you have boasted against me and multiplied your words against me; I have heard them.  
Thus says the Lord GOD: When the whole earth rejoices, I will make you desolate.  
As you rejoiced at the inheritance of the house of Israel because it was desolate, so will I do to you; you shall be desolate, O Mount Seir, and all Idumea, even all of it; and they shall know that I am the LORD."