And the LORD said to Moses, "See, I have made you a god to Pharaoh, and Aaron your brother shall be your prophet."
"You shall speak all that I command you, and Aaron your brother shall speak to Pharaoh, telling him to let the children of Israel go from his land."
"I will harden Pharaoh's heart and multiply my signs and wonders in the land of Egypt."
"But Pharaoh will not listen to you, so that I may lay my hand upon Egypt and bring forth my armies, my people, the children of Israel, out of the land of Egypt with great judgments."
"And the Egyptians will know that I am the LORD when I stretch out my hand against Egypt and bring out the children of Israel from among them."
"And Moses and Aaron did as the LORD commanded them; they did so."
"Moses was eighty years old, and Aaron was eighty-three years old when they spoke to Pharaoh."
"And the LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying,"
"When Pharaoh speaks to you, saying, 'Show a miracle for yourselves,' you shall say to Aaron, 'Take your rod and cast it before Pharaoh, and it shall become a serpent.'"
"And Moses and Aaron went in to Pharaoh, and they did as the LORD commanded; Aaron cast down his rod before Pharaoh and his servants, and it became a serpent."
"Then Pharaoh also called for the wise men and sorcerers; now the magicians of Egypt did the same with their enchantments."
"For they each cast down their rods, and they became serpents; but Aaron's rod swallowed up their rods."
"And he hardened Pharaoh's heart, so that he did not listen to them, as the LORD had said."
"And the LORD said to Moses, 'Pharaoh's heart is hardened; he refuses to let the people go.'"
"Get to Pharaoh in the morning; behold, he goes out to the water; and you shall stand by the river's brink as he comes; and the rod that was turned into a serpent you shall take in your hand."
"And you shall say to him, 'The LORD God of the Hebrews has sent me to you, saying, "Let my people go, that they may serve me in the wilderness"; and behold, up to now you would not listen.'"
"Thus says the LORD: 'In this you shall know that I am the LORD: behold, I will strike the waters that are in the river with the rod that is in my hand, and they shall be turned to blood.'"
"And the fish that are in the river shall die, and the river shall stink; and the Egyptians shall loathe to drink the water of the river."
"And the LORD spoke to Moses, 'Say to Aaron, "Take your rod and stretch out your hand upon the waters of Egypt, upon their streams, their rivers, their ponds, and all their pools of water, that they may become blood; and there shall be blood throughout all the land of Egypt, both in vessels of wood and in vessels of stone."' "
"And Moses and Aaron did so, as the LORD commanded; he lifted up the rod and struck the waters that were in the river, in the sight of Pharaoh and his servants; and all the waters that were in the river were turned to blood."
"And the fish that were in the river died; the river stank, and the Egyptians could not drink the water of the river; and there was blood throughout all the land of Egypt."
"And the magicians of Egypt did so with their enchantments; and Pharaoh's heart was hardened, and he did not listen to them, as the LORD had said."
"And Pharaoh turned and went into his house; he did not set his heart on this also."
"And all the Egyptians dug around the river for water to drink, for they could not drink the water of the river."
"And seven days were fulfilled after the LORD had struck the river."
