Do you not know, brethren, (for I address those who understand the law) that the law has authority over a person as long as he lives?
For a woman who has a husband is bound by the law to her husband as long as he lives; but if her husband dies, she is released from the law concerning her husband.
So if, while her husband is alive, she marries another man, she will be called an adulteress; but if her husband is dead, she is free from that law, so she is not an adulteress, even if she marries another man.
Therefore, my brethren, you also have become dead to the law through the body of Christ, so that you may be married to another, to him who was raised from the dead, that we may bear fruit for God.
For when we were in the flesh, the sinful passions, which were aroused by the law, worked in our members to produce fruit for death.
But now we have been released from the law, having died to that which held us captive, so that we may serve in newness of spirit, and not in the oldness of the letter.
What shall we say then? Is the law sin? Certainly not! I would not have known sin except through the law; for I would not have known coveting if the law had not said, "You shall not covet."
But sin, taking opportunity by the commandment, produced in me all kinds of evil desire. For apart from the law, sin was dead.
I was once alive apart from the law, but when the commandment came, sin revived, and I died.
And the commandment, which was intended to bring life, I found to bring death.
For sin, taking opportunity by the commandment, deceived me, and by it killed me.
Therefore, the law is holy, and the commandment is holy, just, and good.
Was that which is good then made death to me? Certainly not! But sin, that it might appear sin, was producing death in me through what is good, so that sin through the commandment might become exceedingly sinful.
For we know that the law is spiritual, but I am carnal, sold under sin.
For what I am doing, I do not understand. For what I will to do, that I do not practice; but what I hate, that I do.
If then I do what I will not to do, I agree with the law that it is good.
Now it is no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells in me.
For I know that in me (that is, in my flesh) nothing good dwells; for to will is present with me, but how to perform what is good I do not find.
For the good that I will to do, I do not do; but the evil I will not to do, that I practice.
Now if I do what I will not to do, it is no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells in me.
I find then a law, that evil is present with me, the one who wills to do good.
For I delight in the law of God according to the inward man.
But I see another law in my members, warring against the law of my mind, and bringing me into captivity to the law of sin which is in my members.
O wretched man that I am! Who will deliver me from this body of death?
I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord! So then, with the mind, I myself serve the law of God, but with the flesh, the law of sin.
