And it came to pass, after the year had expired, at the time when kings go forth to battle, that David sent Joab, and his servants with him, and all Israel; and they destroyed the children of Ammon and besieged Rabbah. But David remained still at Jerusalem.
And it came to pass in the evening, that David arose from his bed and walked upon the roof of the king's house: and from the roof, he saw a woman washing herself; and the woman was very beautiful to behold.
And David sent and inquired after the woman. And one said, Is not this Bathsheba, the daughter of Eliam, the wife of Uriah the Hittite?
And David sent messengers and took her; and she came in unto him, and he lay with her; for she was purified from her uncleanness: and she returned unto her house.
And the woman conceived and sent and told David, saying, I am with child.
And David sent to Joab, saying, Send me Uriah the Hittite. And Joab sent Uriah to David.
And when Uriah came unto him, David demanded of him how Joab was, and how the people were, and how the war prospered.
And David said to Uriah, Go down to your house and wash your feet. And Uriah departed out of the king's house, and there followed him a portion of food from the king.
But Uriah slept at the door of the king's house with all the servants of his lord and did not go down to his house.
And when they had told David, saying, Uriah did not go down to his house, David said unto Uriah, Did you not come from your journey? Why then did you not go down to your house?
And Uriah said unto David, The ark, and Israel, and Judah, are dwelling in tents; and my lord Joab, and the servants of my lord, are encamped in the open fields; shall I then go into my house to eat and drink, and to lie with my wife? As you live, and as your soul lives, I will not do this thing.
And David said to Uriah, Stay here today also, and tomorrow I will let you depart. So Uriah stayed in Jerusalem that day and the next.
And when David had called him, he ate and drank before him; and he made him drunk: and at evening he went out to lie on his bed with the servants of his lord, but did not go down to his house.
And it came to pass in the morning that David wrote a letter to Joab and sent it by the hand of Uriah.
And he wrote in the letter, saying, Set Uriah in the forefront of the hottest battle, and withdraw from him, that he may be struck down and die.
And it came to pass, when Joab observed the city, that he assigned Uriah to a place where he knew that valiant men were.
And the men of the city went out and fought with Joab: and there fell some of the people of the servants of David; and Uriah the Hittite died also.
Then Joab sent and told David all the things concerning the war;
And charged the messenger, saying, When you have finished telling the matters of the war to the king,
And if it happens that the king's wrath arises, and he says unto you, Why did you approach so near to the city when you fought? Did you not know that they would shoot from the wall?
Who killed Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth? Did not a woman cast a piece of a millstone upon him from the wall, so that he died at Thebez? Why did you go near the wall? Then say you, Your servant Uriah the Hittite is dead also.
So the messenger went and came and showed David all that Joab had sent him for.
And the messenger said unto David, Surely the men prevailed against us, and came out unto us into the field, and we were upon them even unto the entrance of the gate.
And the shooters shot from off the wall upon your servants; and some of the king's servants are dead, and your servant Uriah the Hittite is dead also.
Then David said unto the messenger, Thus shall you say unto Joab, Let not this thing displease you, for the sword devours one as well as another: make your battle stronger against the city and overthrow it: and encourage him.
And when the wife of Uriah heard that Uriah her husband was dead, she mourned for her husband.
And when the mourning was over, David sent and fetched her to his house, and she became his wife and bore him a son. But the thing that David had done displeased the LORD.
