Now, when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea during the reign of King Herod, behold, wise men from the east arrived in Jerusalem,  
Saying, "Where is he who is born King of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east and have come to worship him."  
When King Herod heard these things, he was troubled, and all of Jerusalem was troubled with him.  
He gathered all the chief priests and scribes of the people together and demanded of them where Christ was to be born.  
They replied, "In Bethlehem of Judea, for thus it is written by the prophet,  
'And you, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are not the least among the rulers of Judah; for out of you shall come a Governor who will shepherd my people Israel.'"  
Then Herod, having secretly called the wise men, inquired of them diligently what time the star had appeared.  
He sent them to Bethlehem, saying, "Go and search diligently for the young child; and when you have found him, bring me word again, that I may come and worship him also."  
After hearing the king, they departed; and behold, the star they had seen in the east went before them until it came and stood over where the young child was.  
When they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceedingly great joy.  
Upon entering the house, they saw the young child with Mary his mother, and they fell down and worshipped him. They opened their treasures and presented him with gifts: gold, frankincense, and myrrh.  
Being warned by God in a dream not to return to Herod, they departed for their own country by another route.  
After they had departed, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream, saying, "Arise, take the young child and his mother, and flee to Egypt, and stay there until I bring you word; for Herod will seek the young child to destroy him."  
When he arose, he took the young child and his mother by night and departed for Egypt.  
He remained there until the death of Herod, so that what was spoken by the Lord through the prophet might be fulfilled, saying, "Out of Egypt I called my son."  
When Herod realized that he had been deceived by the wise men, he was furious and sent forth and killed all the children in Bethlehem and in all its districts who were two years old and under, according to the time he had diligently inquired from the wise men.  
Then what was spoken by the prophet Jeremiah was fulfilled, saying,  
"A voice was heard in Ramah, lamentation, weeping, and great mourning, Rachel weeping for her children, and she would not be comforted because they are no more."  
But when Herod died, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to Joseph in Egypt,  
Saying, "Arise, take the young child and his mother, and go to the land of Israel, for those who sought the young child's life are dead."  
He arose, took the young child and his mother, and came into the land of Israel.  
But when he heard that Archelaus was reigning in Judea in place of his father Herod, he was afraid to go there; nevertheless, being warned by God in a dream, he turned aside into the regions of Galilee.  
He came and dwelt in a city called Nazareth, so that what was spoken by the prophets might be fulfilled: "He shall be called a Nazarene."