In You, O LORD, I place my trust; may I never be put to shame.
Rescue me in Your righteousness and help me escape; turn Your ear to me and save me.
Be my strong refuge, to which I can always turn; You have commanded my salvation, for You are my rock and fortress.
Deliver me, O my God, from the hand of the wicked, from the grasp of the unrighteous and cruel.
For You are my hope, O Lord GOD; You have been my trust since my youth.
From birth, I have relied on You; You are the one who brought me from my mother’s womb; my praise will always be of You.
I am a wonder to many, but You are my strong refuge.
Let my mouth be filled with Your praise and honor all day long.
Do not cast me off in my old age; do not forsake me when my strength fails.
For my enemies speak against me, and those who seek my life conspire together,
Saying, "God has forsaken him; pursue and seize him, for there is no one to rescue him."
O God, do not be far from me; O my God, hurry to help me.
Let those who oppose my soul be put to shame and consumed; let them be covered with disgrace and dishonor who seek my harm.
But I will continue to hope and will praise You more and more.
My mouth will proclaim Your righteousness and salvation all day long; I cannot even count them.
I will go in the strength of the Lord GOD; I will declare Your righteousness, only Yours.
O God, You have taught me from my youth, and to this day I declare Your marvelous deeds.
Now, even when I am old and gray, O God, do not forsake me until I have proclaimed Your strength to this generation and Your power to all who are to come.
Your righteousness, O God, reaches to the heavens; You have done great things; O God, who is like You?
You, who have shown me great and severe troubles, will revive me again and bring me up from the depths of the earth.
You will increase my greatness and comfort me on every side.
I will also praise You with the harp, even Your truth, O my God; to You I will sing with the lyre, O Holy One of Israel.
My lips will greatly rejoice when I sing to You; my soul, which You have redeemed.
My tongue will speak of Your righteousness all day long; for those who seek my harm will be put to shame and disgraced.
