Naomi had a relative of her husband’s, a wealthy and influential man from the family of Elimelech; his name was Boaz.
Ruth the Moabitess said to Naomi, "Please let me go to the fields and glean ears of corn from the one in whose sight I may find favor." Naomi replied, "Go, my daughter."
Ruth went, and she gleaned in the fields after the harvesters; she happened to find herself in a part of the field belonging to Boaz, who was a relative of Elimelech.
Just then, Boaz arrived from Bethlehem and greeted the harvesters, saying, "The LORD be with you." They responded, "The LORD bless you."
Boaz then asked his foreman, "Whose young woman is this?"
The foreman answered, "She is the Moabitess who returned with Naomi from the country of Moab.
She said, 'Please let me glean and gather among the sheaves after the harvesters.' She has been in the field from morning until now, except for a short rest in the house."
Boaz said to Ruth, "Listen carefully, my daughter. Do not go to glean in another field or leave this one, but stay close to my young women.
Keep your eyes on the field that they are harvesting, and follow along after them. I have instructed the young men not to touch you. When you are thirsty, go to the jars and drink from what the young men have drawn."
She fell on her face, bowing to the ground, and asked him, "Why have I found favor in your eyes that you notice me, a foreigner?"
Boaz replied, "I have been told all about what you have done for your mother-in-law since the death of your husband, how you left your father and mother and your homeland to come to a people you did not know before.
May the LORD repay you for what you have done; may you be richly rewarded by the LORD, the God of Israel, under whose wings you have come to take refuge."
Ruth said, "I hope to find favor in your eyes, my lord, for you have comforted me and spoken kindly to your servant, though I do not have the standing of one of your servant girls."
Boaz said to her, "At mealtime, come here and eat some bread, and dip it in the vinegar." She sat down with the harvesters, and he offered her some roasted grain. She ate all she wanted and had some left over.
When she got up to glean, Boaz instructed his men, "Let her gather among the sheaves and do not reprimand her.
Even pull out some stalks for her from the bundles and leave them for her to glean, and do not rebuke her."
So Ruth gleaned in the field until evening, and she threshed the barley she had gathered, and it amounted to about an ephah.
She carried it back to town, and her mother-in-law saw how much she had gleaned. Ruth also brought out and gave her what she had left over after she had eaten enough.
Her mother-in-law asked her, "Where did you glean today? Where did you work? Blessed be the man who took notice of you!" Ruth told her mother-in-law about the one at whose place she had been working. The name of the man she worked with today is Boaz."
Naomi said to her daughter-in-law, "The LORD bless him! He has not stopped showing his kindness to the living and the dead." She added, "That man is our close relative; he is one of our guardian-redeemers."
Ruth the Moabitess said, "He even said to me, 'Stay with my workers until they finish harvesting all my grain.'"
Naomi said to Ruth her daughter-in-law, "It is good, my daughter, that you go out with his young women, so that you will not be harmed in another field."
So Ruth stayed close to the women of Boaz to glean until the barley and wheat harvests were finished, and she lived with her mother-in-law.
