The word of the LORD also came to me, saying,
"Son of man, you dwell in the midst of a rebellious house, which has eyes to see but does not see; they have ears to hear but do not hear, for they are a rebellious house.
Therefore, son of man, prepare your belongings for exile, and remove by day in their sight; you shall move from your place to another place in their sight: perhaps they will consider, even though they are a rebellious house.
Then you shall bring out your belongings by day in their sight, as belongings for exile; and you shall go out in the evening in their sight, like those who go into captivity.
Dig through the wall in their sight, and carry your belongings out through it.
In their sight, you shall bear it on your shoulders and carry it out in the twilight; you shall cover your face so that you do not see the ground, for I have made you a sign to the house of Israel.
And I did as I was commanded: I brought out my belongings by day, as belongings for captivity, and in the evening I dug through the wall with my hand; I brought it out in the twilight, and I bore it on my shoulder in their sight.
And in the morning, the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
"Son of man, has not the house of Israel, the rebellious house, asked you, 'What are you doing?'
Say to them, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: This burden concerns the prince in Jerusalem and all the house of Israel that are among them.
Say, "I am your sign; just as I have done, so shall it be done to them: they shall go into exile.
And the prince who is among them shall bear his belongings on his shoulder in the twilight and shall go out; they shall dig through the wall to carry their belongings out through it; he shall cover his face so that he does not see the ground with his eyes.
I will also spread my net over him, and he shall be caught in my snare; I will bring him to Babylon, to the land of the Chaldeans, yet he shall not see it, though he shall die there.
And I will scatter to every wind all who are around him to help him, and all his troops; and I will draw out the sword after them.
And they shall know that I am the LORD when I scatter them among the nations and disperse them in the countries.
But I will leave a few men of them from the sword, from famine, and from pestilence, so that they may declare all their abominations among the nations where they go, and they shall know that I am the LORD.
Moreover, the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
"Son of man, eat your bread with trembling and drink your water with anxiety and caution;
And say to the people of the land, 'Thus says the Lord GOD of the inhabitants of Jerusalem and the land of Israel: They shall eat their bread with anxiety and drink their water with astonishment, for her land shall be desolate from all that is in it because of the violence of all who dwell therein.
And the cities that are inhabited shall be laid waste, and the land shall be desolate; and you shall know that I am the LORD.'
And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
"Son of man, what is that proverb that you have in the land of Israel, saying, 'The days are prolonged, and every vision fails'?
Tell them therefore, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: I will put an end to this proverb, and they shall no longer use it as a proverb in Israel; but say to them, "The days are at hand, and the fulfillment of every vision is near."
For there shall be no more any false vision nor flattering divination within the house of Israel.
For I am the LORD; I will speak, and the word that I speak shall come to pass; it shall no longer be delayed, for in your days, O rebellious house, I will say the word and perform it, says the Lord GOD.
Again, the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
"Son of man, behold, the house of Israel says, 'The vision that he sees is for many days to come, and he prophesies of times that are far off.'
Therefore say to them, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: None of my words will be delayed any longer, but the word which I have spoken shall be done, says the Lord GOD."
