Now I will sing to my beloved a song about his vineyard. My beloved has a vineyard on a very fruitful hill:  
He fenced it, removed the stones, planted it with the finest vines, built a tower in the middle, and made a winepress there. He expected it to produce grapes, but it yielded wild grapes.  
And now, O inhabitants of Jerusalem and men of Judah, I ask you to judge between me and my vineyard.  
What more could have been done for my vineyard that I have not done? Why, when I expected it to produce grapes, did it yield wild grapes?  
Now, I will tell you what I will do to my vineyard: I will remove its hedge, and it will be devoured; I will break down its wall, and it will be trampled.  
I will make it a wasteland; it will not be pruned or cultivated, and briers and thorns will grow up. I will also command the clouds not to rain upon it.  
For the vineyard of the LORD of hosts is the house of Israel, and the men of Judah are his cherished plants. He looked for justice, but behold, oppression; for righteousness, but behold, a cry.  
Woe to those who join house to house, who add field to field, until there is no room, and they are left alone in the midst of the earth!  
In my ears, the LORD of hosts said, "Truly, many houses will be desolate, even great and beautiful ones, without inhabitants."  
Indeed, ten acres of vineyard will yield only one bath, and a homer of seed will produce only an ephah.  
Woe to those who rise early in the morning to pursue strong drink, who continue until night, until wine inflames them!  
The harp, the lyre, the tambourine, and the flute, along with wine, are in their feasts; but they do not regard the work of the LORD, nor consider the operation of his hands.  
Therefore, my people go into captivity for lack of knowledge; their honorable men are famished, and their multitude is parched with thirst.  
Therefore, hell has enlarged itself and opened its mouth without measure; their glory, their multitude, their pomp, and he who rejoices shall descend into it.  
The common man will be brought down, and the mighty man will be humbled; the eyes of the proud will be humbled.  
But the LORD of hosts will be exalted in judgment, and the Holy God will be sanctified in righteousness.  
Then the lambs will graze as they wish, and strangers will eat in the desolate places of the fat ones.  
Woe to those who draw iniquity with cords of vanity and sin as if with a cart rope!  
Who say, "Let him hurry, and let his work come quickly, that we may see it; and let the counsel of the Holy One of Israel draw near and come, that we may know it!"  
Woe to those who call evil good and good evil; who put darkness for light and light for darkness; who put bitter for sweet and sweet for bitter!  
Woe to those who are wise in their own eyes and prudent in their own sight!  
Woe to those who are mighty to drink wine and valiant men to mix strong drink,  
Who justify the wicked for a bribe and take away the righteousness of the righteous from him!  
Therefore, as the fire devours the stubble and the flame consumes the chaff, so their root will be as rottenness, and their blossom will go up like dust; because they have rejected the law of the LORD of hosts and despised the word of the Holy One of Israel.  
Therefore, the anger of the LORD is kindled against his people; he has stretched out his hand against them and struck them. The hills trembled, and their corpses were torn in the streets. For all this, his anger is not turned away, but his hand is still stretched out.  
He will lift up a banner for the nations from afar and will whistle for them from the ends of the earth; behold, they will come swiftly.  
None will be weary or stumble among them; none will slumber or sleep; neither will the belt of their waist be loosed nor the strap of their sandals be broken.  
Their arrows are sharp, and all their bows are bent; their horses' hooves will be like flint, and their wheels like a whirlwind.  
Their roaring will be like a lion; they will roar like young lions. Yes, they will roar and seize their prey, and carry it away safely, and none will rescue it.  
And in that day, they will roar against them like the roaring of the sea; and if one looks to the land, behold, darkness and sorrow, and the light will be darkened in the heavens.