Then the LORD said to Moses, "Now you will see what I will do to Pharaoh: with a strong hand he will let them go, and with a strong hand he will drive them out of his land."
And God spoke to Moses, saying, "I am the LORD."
"I appeared to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob as God Almighty, but by my name JEHOVAH I was not known to them."
"I have also established my covenant with them to give them the land of Canaan, the land of their pilgrimage, where they were strangers."
"I have heard the groaning of the children of Israel, whom the Egyptians hold in bondage; and I have remembered my covenant."
"Therefore, say to the children of Israel, 'I am the LORD. I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will free you from their bondage. I will redeem you with an outstretched arm and with great judgments.'"
"I will take you as my people, and I will be your God. You will know that I am the LORD your God, who brings you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians."
"I will bring you into the land I swore to give to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob; I will give it to you as a heritage. I am the LORD."
Moses spoke this to the children of Israel, but they did not listen to him because of their anguish of spirit and cruel bondage.
The LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
"Go in, speak to Pharaoh king of Egypt, that he let the children of Israel go out of his land."
Moses spoke before the LORD, saying, "Behold, the children of Israel have not listened to me; how then shall Pharaoh hear me, since I am of uncircumcised lips?"
The LORD spoke to Moses and Aaron, giving them a charge to the children of Israel and to Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt.
These are the heads of their fathers' houses: The sons of Reuben, the firstborn of Israel: Hanoch, Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi; these are the families of Reuben.
And the sons of Simeon: Jemuel, Jamin, Ohad, Jachin, Zohar, and Shaul, the son of a Canaanitish woman; these are the families of Simeon.
These are the names of the sons of Levi according to their generations: Gershon, Kohath, and Merari; the years of Levi's life were one hundred thirty-seven years.
The sons of Gershon: Libni and Shimi, according to their families.
The sons of Kohath: Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel; the years of Kohath's life were one hundred thirty-three years.
The sons of Merari: Mahali and Mushi; these are the families of Levi according to their generations.
Amram took Jochebed, his father's sister, as his wife, and she bore him Aaron and Moses; the years of Amram's life were one hundred thirty-seven years.
The sons of Izhar: Korah, Nepheg, and Zichri.
The sons of Uzziel: Mishael, Elzaphan, and Zithri.
Aaron took Elisheba, the daughter of Amminadab, the sister of Naashon, as his wife; she bore him Nadab, Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.
The sons of Korah: Assir, Elkanah, and Abiasaph; these are the families of the Korhites.
Eleazar, Aaron's son, took one of the daughters of Putiel as his wife; she bore him Phinehas; these are the heads of the fathers of the Levites according to their families.
These are that Aaron and Moses, to whom the LORD said, "Bring out the children of Israel from the land of Egypt according to their armies."
These are they who spoke to Pharaoh king of Egypt to bring out the children of Israel from Egypt; these are that Moses and Aaron.
It came to pass on the day when the LORD spoke to Moses in the land of Egypt,
That the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, "I am the LORD; speak to Pharaoh king of Egypt all that I say to you."
Moses said before the LORD, "Behold, I am of uncircumcised lips, and how shall Pharaoh listen to me?"
