And David spoke to the LORD the words of this song on the day that the LORD delivered him from the hand of all his enemies, and from the hand of Saul:
He said, "The LORD is my rock, my fortress, and my deliverer;
The God of my rock; in Him will I trust: He is my shield, the horn of my salvation, my high tower, my refuge, my savior; You save me from violence.
I will call on the LORD, who is worthy to be praised; so shall I be saved from my enemies.
When the waves of death surrounded me, the floods of ungodly men made me afraid;
The sorrows of hell surrounded me; the snares of death confronted me;
In my distress, I called upon the LORD and cried to my God; He heard my voice from His temple, and my cry entered His ears.
Then the earth shook and trembled; the foundations of heaven moved and shook because He was angry.
There went up smoke from His nostrils, and fire from His mouth devoured; coals were kindled by it.
He bowed the heavens and came down; darkness was under His feet.
He rode upon a cherub and flew; He was seen upon the wings of the wind.
He made darkness His pavilions round about Him, dark waters, and thick clouds of the skies.
Through the brightness before Him, coals of fire were kindled.
The LORD thundered from heaven, and the Most High uttered His voice.
He sent out arrows and scattered them; lightning and discomfited them.
The channels of the sea appeared, and the foundations of the world were discovered at the rebuke of the LORD, at the blast of the breath of His nostrils.
He sent from above, took me; He drew me out of many waters;
He delivered me from my strong enemy and from those who hated me, for they were too strong for me.
They confronted me in the day of my calamity, but the LORD was my support.
He brought me forth into a large place; He delivered me because He delighted in me.
The LORD rewarded me according to my righteousness; according to the cleanness of my hands, He recompensed me.
For I have kept the ways of the LORD and have not wickedly departed from my God.
For all His judgments were before me; and as for His statutes, I did not depart from them.
I was also upright before Him and kept myself from my iniquity.
Therefore, the LORD has recompensed me according to my righteousness; according to my cleanness in His sight.
With the merciful, You will show Yourself merciful; with the upright man, You will show Yourself upright.
With the pure, You will show Yourself pure; and with the froward, You will show Yourself unsavory.
And the afflicted people, You will save; but Your eyes are upon the haughty, that You may bring them down.
For You are my lamp, O LORD; the LORD will lighten my darkness.
For by You, I have run through a troop; by my God, I have leaped over a wall.
As for God, His way is perfect; the word of the LORD is tested; He is a shield to all who trust in Him.
For who is God, except the LORD? And who is a rock, except our God?
God is my strength and power; He makes my way perfect.
He makes my feet like the feet of deer and sets me on my high places.
He teaches my hands to war, so that a bow of steel is broken by my arms.
You have also given me the shield of Your salvation; Your gentleness has made me great.
You have enlarged my steps under me, so that my feet did not slip.
I have pursued my enemies and destroyed them; I did not turn back until I had consumed them.
And I have consumed them and wounded them, so they could not rise; yes, they have fallen under my feet.
For You have girded me with strength for battle; those who rose up against me, You have subdued under me.
You have also given me the necks of my enemies, that I might destroy those who hate me.
They looked, but there was none to save; even to the LORD, but He answered them not.
Then I beat them as small as the dust of the earth; I stamped them as the mire of the street and spread them abroad.
You also have delivered me from the strivings of my people; You have kept me to be head of the heathen; a people I did not know shall serve me.
Strangers shall submit themselves to me; as soon as they hear, they shall be obedient to me.
Strangers shall fade away, and they shall be afraid from their close places.
The LORD lives; blessed be my rock; exalted be the God of the rock of my salvation.
It is God who avenges me and brings down the people under me.
And who brings me forth from my enemies; You have also lifted me up on high above those who rose up against me; You have delivered me from the violent man.
Therefore, I will give thanks to You, O LORD, among the heathen, and I will sing praises to Your name.
He is the tower of salvation for His king and shows mercy to His anointed, to David, and to his seed forevermore.
