And when Balaam saw that it pleased the LORD to bless Israel, he did not, as before, seek enchantments; instead, he set his face toward the wilderness.  
Balaam lifted up his eyes and saw Israel dwelling in their tents according to their tribes; and the Spirit of God came upon him.  
He took up his parable and said, "Balaam the son of Beor has said, and the man whose eyes are open has said:  
He has said, who heard the words of God, who saw the vision of the Almighty, falling into a trance yet having his eyes open:  
"How goodly are your tents, O Jacob, and your tabernacles, O Israel!  
They spread out like valleys, like gardens by the riverside, like the trees of lign aloes which the LORD has planted, and like cedar trees beside the waters.  
He shall pour water from his buckets, and his seed shall be in many waters; his king shall be higher than Agag, and his kingdom shall be exalted.  
God brought him out of Egypt; he has, as it were, the strength of a unicorn: he shall consume his enemies, breaking their bones and piercing them through with his arrows.  
He crouched, he lay down like a lion, and like a great lion: who shall rouse him? Blessed is he who blesses you, and cursed is he who curses you.  
Balak's anger was kindled against Balaam, and he struck his hands together; Balak said to Balaam, "I called you to curse my enemies, and behold, you have altogether blessed them these three times.  
Therefore, flee to your place now: I thought to promote you to great honor; but behold, the LORD has kept you back from honor.  
Balaam said to Balak, "Did I not also speak to your messengers whom you sent to me, saying,  
If Balak were to give me his house full of silver and gold, I cannot go beyond the commandment of the LORD, to do either good or bad of my own mind; but what the LORD says, that will I speak?  
And now, behold, I go to my people: come, and I will advise you what this people shall do to your people in the latter days.  
He took up his parable and said, "Balaam the son of Beor has said, and the man whose eyes are open has said:  
He has said, who heard the words of God and knew the knowledge of the Most High, who saw the vision of the Almighty, falling into a trance yet having his eyes open:  
"I shall see him, but not now; I shall behold him, but not near: a Star shall come out of Jacob, and a Scepter shall rise out of Israel, and shall smite the corners of Moab, and destroy all the children of Sheth.  
Edom shall be a possession, and Seir shall also be a possession for his enemies; and Israel shall act valiantly.  
Out of Jacob shall come he who shall have dominion and shall destroy him who remains of the city.  
When he looked upon Amalek, he took up his parable and said, "Amalek was the first of the nations; but his latter end shall be that he perishes forever.  
He looked upon the Kenites and took up his parable and said, "Strong is your dwelling place, and you put your nest in a rock.  
Nevertheless, the Kenite shall be wasted until Asshur carries you away captive.  
He took up his parable and said, "Alas, who shall live when God does this!  
Ships shall come from the coast of Chittim and shall afflict Asshur, and shall afflict Eber, and he also shall perish forever.  
Balaam rose up, went, and returned to his place; and Balak also went his way.