Here is a revised version of each line for clarity and modern language:

1. Therefore, since we are surrounded by such a great cloud of witnesses, let us throw off every burden and the sin that easily entangles us, and let us run with perseverance the race set before us.
2. Fixing our eyes on Jesus, the pioneer and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy set before him endured the cross, disregarding its shame, and is now seated at the right hand of the throne of God.
3. Consider him who endured such opposition from sinners, so that you will not grow weary and lose heart.
4. You have not yet resisted to the point of shedding blood in your struggle against sin.
5. And you have forgotten the encouragement that addresses you as children: "My child, do not make light of the Lord's discipline, and do not lose heart when he rebukes you."
6. For the Lord disciplines those he loves, and he chastens everyone he accepts as his child.
7. Endure hardship as discipline; God is treating you as his children. For what children are not disciplined by their father?
8. If you are not disciplined (and everyone undergoes discipline), then you are not legitimate, not true sons and daughters at all.
9. Moreover, we have all had human fathers who disciplined us, and we respected them for it. How much more should we submit to the Father of spirits and live?
10. They disciplined us for a little while as they thought best; but God disciplines us for our good, in order that we may share in his holiness.
11. No discipline seems pleasant at the time, but painful. Later on, however, it produces a harvest of righteousness and peace for those who have been trained by it.
12. Therefore, strengthen your feeble arms and weak knees.
13. Make level paths for your feet, so that the lame may not be disabled, but rather healed.
14. Pursue peace with everyone, and holiness, without which no one will see the Lord.
15. See to it that no one falls short of the grace of God and that no bitter root grows up to cause trouble and defile many.
16. See that no one is sexually immoral or is godless like Esau, who sold his birthright for a single meal.
17. For you know that afterward, when he wanted to inherit this blessing, he was rejected, even though he sought the blessing with tears; he could not change what he had done.
18. You have not come to a mountain that can be touched and that is burning with fire; to darkness, gloom, and storm;
19. To a trumpet blast or to such a voice speaking words that those who heard it begged that no further word be spoken to them,
20. Because they could not bear what was commanded: "If even an animal touches the mountain, it must be stoned to death."
21. The sight was so terrifying that Moses said, "I am trembling with fear."
22. But you have come to Mount Zion, to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to countless thousands of angels in joyful assembly,
23. To the church of the firstborn, whose names are written in heaven. You have come to God, the Judge of all, to the spirits of the righteous made perfect,
24. And to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood that speaks a better word than the blood of Abel.
25. See to it that you do not refuse him who speaks. If they did not escape when they refused him who warned them on earth, how much less will we, if we turn away from him who warns us from heaven?
26. At that time his voice shook the earth, but now he has promised, "Once more I will shake not only the earth but also the heavens."
27. The words "once more" indicate the removing of what can be shaken—that is, created things—so that what cannot be shaken may remain.
28. Therefore, since we are receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken, let us be thankful, and so worship God acceptably with reverence and awe,
29. For our God is a consuming fire.