There was a famine in the land, in addition to the first famine that occurred during the days of Abraham. Isaac went to Abimelech, the king of the Philistines, in Gerar.  
The LORD appeared to him and said, "Do not go down to Egypt; dwell in the land that I will show you."  
"Stay in this land, and I will be with you and bless you; for to you and your descendants, I will give all these lands, and I will fulfill the oath I swore to Abraham your father."  
"I will make your descendants multiply like the stars in the sky, and I will give your descendants all these lands; and through your offspring, all nations of the earth will be blessed."  
"This is because Abraham obeyed my voice and kept my charge, my commandments, my statutes, and my laws."  
Isaac settled in Gerar.  
The men of the place asked him about his wife, and he replied, "She is my sister," for he was afraid to say, "She is my wife," thinking that the men of the place might kill him because of Rebekah, who was beautiful in appearance.  
After a long time, Abimelech, king of the Philistines, looked out a window and saw Isaac caressing Rebekah, his wife.  
Abimelech called Isaac and said, "Surely she is your wife! Why did you say, 'She is my sister'?" Isaac answered, "Because I thought, 'I might die because of her.'"  
Abimelech said, "What have you done to us? One of the people might have easily lain with your wife, and you would have brought guilt upon us."  
Abimelech then commanded all his people, saying, "Whoever touches this man or his wife shall surely be put to death."  
Isaac sowed in that land and reaped a hundredfold in the same year, and the LORD blessed him.  
The man became very prosperous, continued to grow, and became exceedingly wealthy.  
He had flocks, herds, and a large number of servants, and the Philistines envied him.  
The Philistines had stopped up all the wells that his father's servants had dug in the days of Abraham, filling them with earth.  
Abimelech said to Isaac, "Go away from us, for you are much mightier than we are."  
Isaac departed from there and pitched his tent in the valley of Gerar, where he settled.  
Isaac dug again the wells of water that had been dug in the days of Abraham, his father, for the Philistines had stopped them up after Abraham's death. He named them after the names his father had given them.  
Isaac's servants dug in the valley and found a well of fresh water there.  
The herdsmen of Gerar quarreled with Isaac's herdsmen, saying, "The water is ours." So he named the well Esek, because they contended with him.  
They dug another well, and they quarreled over that one too, so he named it Sitnah.  
He moved from there and dug another well, and they did not quarrel over it; he named it Rehoboth, saying, "For now the LORD has made room for us, and we shall be fruitful in the land."  
He then went up from there to Beersheba.  
The LORD appeared to him that night and said, "I am the God of Abraham your father; do not be afraid, for I am with you, and I will bless you and multiply your descendants for the sake of my servant Abraham."  
He built an altar there and called upon the name of the LORD, and he pitched his tent there; Isaac's servants dug a well there.  
Then Abimelech came to him from Gerar, along with Ahuzzath, one of his friends, and Phichol, the chief captain of his army.  
Isaac asked them, "Why have you come to me, since you hate me and have sent me away from you?"  
They replied, "We have clearly seen that the LORD is with you; so we said, 'Let there be an oath between us, between us and you, and let us make a covenant with you.'"  
"That you will do us no harm, just as we have not touched you and have done nothing but good to you, and have sent you away in peace. You are now blessed by the LORD."  
Isaac prepared a feast for them, and they ate and drank.  
They rose early in the morning and swore an oath to each other; Isaac sent them away, and they departed from him in peace.  
That same day, Isaac's servants came and told him about the well they had dug, saying, "We have found water."  
He named it Shebah; therefore, the city is called Beersheba to this day.  
Esau was forty years old when he married Judith, the daughter of Beeri the Hittite, and Bashemath, the daughter of Elon the Hittite.  
These marriages were a source of grief to Isaac and Rebekah.