On that day, this song will be sung in the land of Judah: We have a strong city; God will appoint salvation as our walls and bulwarks.
Open the gates, so that the righteous nation, which keeps the truth, may enter in.
You will keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is steadfast on You, because he trusts in You.
Trust in the LORD forever, for in the LORD JEHOVAH is everlasting strength.
For He brings down those who dwell on high; the lofty city He lays low, bringing it down to the ground, even to the dust.
The foot shall tread it down, even the feet of the poor and the steps of the needy.
The way of the just is uprightness; You, most upright, weigh the path of the just.
Indeed, in the way of Your judgments, O LORD, we have waited for You; the desire of our soul is for Your name and the remembrance of You.
With my soul, I have desired You in the night; yes, with my spirit within me, I will seek You early: for when Your judgments are in the earth, the inhabitants of the world will learn righteousness.
Let favor be shown to the wicked, yet he will not learn righteousness; in the land of uprightness, he will deal unjustly and will not behold the majesty of the LORD.
LORD, when Your hand is lifted up, they will not see; but they shall see and be ashamed for their envy of the people; yes, the fire of Your enemies shall consume them.
LORD, You will ordain peace for us, for You have also accomplished all our works in us.
O LORD our God, other lords besides You have had dominion over us; but by You only will we make mention of Your name.
They are dead; they shall not live; they are deceased; they shall not rise: therefore, You have visited and destroyed them, and made all their memory perish.
You have increased the nation, O LORD; You have increased the nation; You are glorified; You have removed it far to all the ends of the earth.
LORD, in trouble, they have visited You; they poured out a prayer when Your chastening was upon them.
Like a woman with child, who draws near the time of her delivery, is in pain and cries out in her pangs; so have we been in Your sight, O LORD.
We have been with child; we have been in pain; we have, as it were, brought forth wind; we have not accomplished any deliverance in the earth; neither have the inhabitants of the world fallen.
Your dead men shall live; together with my dead body, they shall arise. Awake and sing, you who dwell in dust; for Your dew is like the dew of herbs, and the earth shall cast out the dead.
Come, my people, enter into your chambers and shut your doors behind you; hide yourself for a little moment until the indignation is past.
For behold, the LORD comes out of His place to punish the inhabitants of the earth for their iniquity; the earth also shall disclose her blood and shall no longer cover her slain.
