And Saul, still breathing out threats and violence against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest,  
And requested letters to the synagogues in Damascus, so that if he found any belonging to this way, whether men or women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem.  
As he journeyed, he approached Damascus, and suddenly a light from heaven shone around him.  
He fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to him, "Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?"  
He asked, "Who are you, Lord?" And the Lord replied, "I am Jesus whom you are persecuting; it is hard for you to kick against the goads."  
Trembling and astonished, he said, "Lord, what do you want me to do?" The Lord answered, "Arise and go into the city, and you will be told what you must do."  
The men traveling with him stood speechless, hearing a voice but seeing no one.  
Saul got up from the ground, and when his eyes were opened, he saw no one; so they led him by the hand and brought him into Damascus.  
He was blind for three days and did not eat or drink anything.  
In Damascus, there was a certain disciple named Ananias; the Lord spoke to him in a vision, saying, "Ananias." He replied, "Here I am, Lord."  
The Lord instructed him, "Arise and go to the street called Straight, and inquire in the house of Judas for a man named Saul of Tarsus, for behold, he is praying,  
And he has seen in a vision a man named Ananias coming in and putting his hand on him so that he might regain his sight."  
Ananias responded, "Lord, I have heard from many about this man, how much harm he has done to your saints in Jerusalem.  
And here he has authority from the chief priests to arrest all who call on your name."  
But the Lord said to him, "Go, for he is a chosen vessel of mine to bear my name before the Gentiles, kings, and the children of Israel.  
For I will show him how much he must suffer for my name's sake."  
Ananias went his way and entered the house; laying his hands on him, he said, "Brother Saul, the Lord Jesus, who appeared to you on the road as you came, has sent me so that you may regain your sight and be filled with the Holy Spirit."  
Immediately, something like scales fell from his eyes, and he regained his sight; he arose and was baptized.  
After receiving food, he was strengthened. Saul spent several days with the disciples in Damascus.  
He immediately began preaching Christ in the synagogues, proclaiming that he is the Son of God.  
All who heard him were amazed and said, "Is this not the man who destroyed those who called on this name in Jerusalem and came here for that purpose, to bring them bound to the chief priests?"  
But Saul grew stronger and confounded the Jews living in Damascus by proving that Jesus is the Christ.  
After many days had passed, the Jews plotted to kill him,  
But Saul became aware of their plot. They watched the gates day and night to kill him.  
Then the disciples took him by night and lowered him in a basket through the wall.  
When Saul arrived in Jerusalem, he tried to join the disciples, but they were all afraid of him, not believing that he was a disciple.  
But Barnabas took him and brought him to the apostles, declaring to them how he had seen the Lord on the road and that he had spoken to him, and how he had boldly preached in the name of Jesus at Damascus.  
He was with them, coming in and going out in Jerusalem.  
He spoke boldly in the name of the Lord Jesus and debated with the Hellenists, but they attempted to kill him.  
When the brothers learned of this, they brought him down to Caesarea and sent him off to Tarsus.  
Then the churches throughout all Judea, Galilee, and Samaria had peace and were strengthened; walking in the fear of the Lord and in the comfort of the Holy Spirit, they multiplied.  
As Peter traveled throughout all regions, he also came down to the saints who dwelt in Lydda.  
There he found a man named Aeneas, who had been bedridden for eight years, for he was paralyzed.  
Peter said to him, "Aeneas, Jesus Christ heals you; arise and make your bed." He arose immediately.  
All who lived in Lydda and Sharon saw him and turned to the Lord.  
In Joppa, there was a certain disciple named Tabitha, which is translated as Dorcas; this woman was full of good works and charitable deeds.  
It happened in those days that she became sick and died; when they had washed her, they laid her in an upper room.  
Since Lydda was near Joppa, and the disciples had heard that Peter was there, they sent two men to him, urging him not to delay in coming to them.  
Peter arose and went with them. When he arrived, they brought him to the upper room, and all the widows stood by him weeping and showing the tunics and garments which Dorcas had made while she was with them.  
But Peter put them all outside, knelt down, and prayed; turning to the body, he said, "Tabitha, arise." She opened her eyes, and when she saw Peter, she sat up.  
He gave her his hand and lifted her up; when he had called the saints and widows, he presented her alive.  
This became known throughout all Joppa, and many believed in the Lord.  
It came to pass that he stayed many days in Joppa with Simon, a tanner.