Therefore, leaving the foundational principles of the doctrine of Christ, let us strive for perfection; not reestablishing the foundation of repentance from dead works and faith toward God.  
Concerning the doctrine of baptisms, the laying on of hands, the resurrection of the dead, and eternal judgment.  
And we will pursue this, if God permits.  
For it is impossible for those who have once been enlightened, tasted the heavenly gift, and become partakers of the Holy Spirit,  
And have experienced the goodness of the word of God and the powers of the age to come,  
If they fall away, to renew them again to repentance; since they are crucifying the Son of God afresh and exposing Him to public shame.  
For the earth that drinks in the rain often falling upon it and produces useful crops for those who cultivate it receives blessings from God;  
But that which bears thorns and thistles is rejected and is near to being cursed; its end is to be burned.  
But, beloved, we are confident of better things concerning you, things that accompany salvation, even though we speak in this manner.  
For God is not unjust to forget your work and labor of love, which you have shown toward His name, in that you have ministered to the saints and continue to do so.  
And we desire that each of you show the same diligence to the full assurance of hope until the end,  
So that you do not become sluggish, but imitate those who through faith and patience inherit the promises.  
For when God made a promise to Abraham, since He could swear by no one greater, He swore by Himself,  
Saying, "Surely, I will bless you and multiply you."  
And so, after he had patiently endured, he obtained the promise.  
For men indeed swear by the greater, and an oath for confirmation is the end of all dispute for them.  
In which God, wanting to show more abundantly to the heirs of promise the unchangeability of His counsel, confirmed it with an oath,  
So that by two unchangeable things, in which it is impossible for God to lie, we might have strong consolation, who have fled for refuge to lay hold of the hope set before us.  
This hope we have as an anchor for the soul, both sure and steadfast, which enters the inner sanctuary behind the veil,  
Where Jesus, our forerunner, has entered on our behalf, having become a high priest forever according to the order of Melchizedek.