And the LORD spoke to Moses on Mount Sinai, saying,
"Speak to the children of Israel and tell them, 'When you enter the land that I give you, the land shall observe a Sabbath for the LORD.
For six years you shall sow your fields, and for six years you shall prune your vineyards and gather their produce;
But in the seventh year, there shall be a Sabbath of rest for the land, a Sabbath for the LORD: you shall neither sow your fields nor prune your vineyards.
Whatever grows of its own accord during your harvest you shall not reap, nor gather the grapes of your unpruned vines: for it is a year of rest for the land.
And the Sabbath of the land shall be food for you; for you, your servants, your maids, your hired workers, and the strangers who reside with you.
And for your livestock and the wild animals in your land, all its produce shall be food.
You shall count seven Sabbaths of years for yourself, seven times seven years; the total of the seven Sabbaths of years shall be forty-nine years for you.
Then you shall sound the trumpet for the Jubilee on the tenth day of the seventh month; on the Day of Atonement, you shall make the trumpet sound throughout your land.
You shall consecrate the fiftieth year and proclaim liberty throughout the land to all its inhabitants: it shall be a Jubilee for you; each of you shall return to your property, and each of you shall return to your family.
The fiftieth year shall be a Jubilee for you: you shall not sow, nor reap what grows of itself, nor gather the grapes of your unpruned vines.
For it is the Jubilee; it shall be holy to you: you shall eat the produce from the field.
In this Jubilee year, each of you shall return to your property.
If your brother becomes poor and sells some of his property, and if any of his relatives come to redeem it, then he shall redeem what his brother sold.
If a man has no one to redeem it, but he himself becomes able to redeem it,
Then he shall calculate the years since the sale and return the excess to the man to whom he sold it, so that he may return to his property.
But if he is unable to restore it to him, then what was sold shall remain in the hands of the buyer until the Year of Jubilee; in the Jubilee, it shall be released, and he shall return to his property.
If a man sells a dwelling house in a walled city, he may redeem it within a whole year after it is sold; he may redeem it within a full year.
If it is not redeemed within the year, then the house in the walled city shall remain permanently with the buyer throughout their generations; it shall not be released in the Jubilee.
But the houses of the villages that have no wall around them shall be counted as the fields of the country: they may be redeemed, and they shall go out in the Jubilee.
However, the cities of the Levites and the houses in the cities of their possession may be redeemed at any time.
If a man purchases from the Levites, then the house that was sold and the city of his possession shall go out in the Year of Jubilee; for the houses in the cities of the Levites are their possession among the children of Israel.
But the field surrounding their cities may not be sold; for it is their perpetual possession.
If your brother becomes poor and is in need among you, you shall help him, even if he is a stranger or a sojourner, so that he may live with you.
Do not take interest from him or increase; but fear your God, so that your brother may live with you.
You shall not lend him your money at interest, nor give him your food for profit.
I am the LORD your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, to give you the land of Canaan, and to be your God.
If your brother who dwells by you becomes poor and is sold to you, you shall not make him serve as a slave.
He shall be with you as a hired servant and as a sojourner; he shall serve you until the Year of Jubilee.
Then he shall depart from you, both he and his children with him, and shall return to his own family and to the possession of his fathers.
For they are My servants, whom I brought out of the land of Egypt; they shall not be sold as slaves.
You shall not rule over him with rigor, but you shall fear your God.
Both your male and female slaves whom you have shall be from the nations around you; from them you may buy male and female slaves.
Moreover, you may buy the children of the strangers who dwell among you, and their families that are with you, which they begat in your land: they shall be your possession.
You shall take them as an inheritance for your children after you, to inherit them as a possession; they shall be your slaves forever: but over your brethren, the children of Israel, you shall not rule one over another with rigor.
If a sojourner or stranger becomes rich among you, and your brother who dwells by him becomes poor and sells himself to the stranger or sojourner among you, or to a member of the stranger's family:
After he is sold, he may be redeemed again; one of his brothers may redeem him.
Either his uncle or his uncle's son may redeem him, or any of his near relatives from his family may redeem him; or if he is able, he may redeem himself.
He shall calculate with the one who bought him from the year he was sold to him until the Year of Jubilee; the price of his sale shall be according to the number of years, according to the time of a hired servant shall it be with him.
If there are still many years left, according to them he shall repay the price of his redemption from the money for which he was bought.
If there remain but a few years until the Year of Jubilee, then he shall calculate with him, and according to his years he shall repay the price of his redemption.
As a yearly hired servant shall he be with him: and the other shall not rule over him with rigor in your sight.
If he is not redeemed in these years, then he shall go out in the Year of Jubilee, both he and his children with him.
For the children of Israel are My servants; they are My servants whom I brought out of the land of Egypt: I am the LORD your God."
