Then the LORD spoke to Moses, saying, "Go to Pharaoh and tell him, 'Thus says the LORD God of the Hebrews: Let my people go so that they may serve me.'"

"If you refuse to let them go and continue to hold them back,"

"Behold, the hand of the LORD will be upon your cattle in the field, upon the horses, the donkeys, the camels, the oxen, and the sheep: there will be a severe plague."

"And the LORD will distinguish between the cattle of Israel and the cattle of Egypt; none of the livestock of the Israelites will die."

"And the LORD set a specific time, saying, 'Tomorrow the LORD will do this in the land.'"

"And the LORD did this on the following day; all the cattle of Egypt died, but not one of the cattle of the Israelites perished."

"Pharaoh sent to investigate, and behold, there was not one of the cattle of the Israelites dead. Yet Pharaoh's heart was hardened, and he did not let the people go."

"And the LORD said to Moses and Aaron, 'Take handfuls of ashes from the furnace and let Moses sprinkle it toward heaven in the sight of Pharaoh.'"

"It will become fine dust over all the land of Egypt, and it will cause festering boils to break out on man and beast throughout the land of Egypt."

"They took ashes from the furnace and stood before Pharaoh; Moses sprinkled it toward heaven, and it became festering boils on man and beast."

"The magicians could not stand before Moses because of the boils, for the boils afflicted the magicians and all the Egyptians."

"And the LORD hardened Pharaoh's heart, and he did not listen to them, just as the LORD had said to Moses."

"And the LORD said to Moses, 'Get up early in the morning and stand before Pharaoh, and say to him, 'Thus says the LORD God of the Hebrews: Let my people go so that they may serve me.'"

"For this time, I will send all my plagues upon your heart, upon your servants, and upon your people, so that you may know that there is none like me in all the earth."

"For now, I will stretch out my hand to strike you and your people with pestilence, and you will be cut off from the earth."

"And indeed, for this purpose, I have raised you up, to show you my power, and that my name may be proclaimed throughout all the earth."

"Are you still exalting yourself against my people by refusing to let them go?"

"Behold, tomorrow at this time, I will cause a very severe hail to fall, such as has not been in Egypt since its founding until now."

"Therefore, send now and gather your livestock and all that you have in the field; for every man and beast found in the field and not brought home will be struck by the hail, and they will die."

"Whoever feared the word of the LORD among Pharaoh's servants hurried his servants and livestock into the houses."

"But whoever did not regard the word of the LORD left his servants and livestock in the field."

"And the LORD said to Moses, 'Stretch out your hand toward heaven, that there may be hail in all the land of Egypt, upon man, beast, and every herb of the field throughout the land of Egypt.'"

"Moses stretched out his rod toward heaven, and the LORD sent thunder and hail, and fire ran along the ground; the LORD rained hail upon the land of Egypt."

"So there was hail, and fire mingled with the hail, very severe, such as had not been in all the land of Egypt since it became a nation."

"And the hail struck throughout all the land of Egypt, everything in the field, both man and beast; the hail struck every herb of the field and broke every tree in the field."

"Only in the land of Goshen, where the children of Israel were, was there no hail."

"Pharaoh sent and called for Moses and Aaron, and said to them, 'I have sinned this time; the LORD is righteous, and I and my people are wicked.'"

"Entreat the LORD (for it is enough) that there be no more mighty thunderings and hail; I will let you go, and you shall stay no longer."

"Moses said to him, 'As soon as I leave the city, I will spread my hands to the LORD; the thunder will cease, and there will be no more hail, so that you may know that the earth is the LORD's.'"

"But as for you and your servants, I know that you will not yet fear the LORD God."

"The flax and the barley were struck down, for the barley was in the ear, and the flax was in bloom."

"But the wheat and the spelt were not struck down, for they had not yet grown."

"Moses went out of the city from Pharaoh and spread his hands to the LORD; the thunder and hail ceased, and the rain was not poured upon the earth."

"When Pharaoh saw that the rain, hail, and thunder had ceased, he sinned even more and hardened his heart, he and his servants."

"And Pharaoh's heart was hardened, and he would not let the children of Israel go, just as the LORD had spoken through Moses."