These are the words of the covenant that the LORD commanded Moses to establish with the children of Israel in the land of Moab, in addition to the covenant He made with them at Horeb.  
Moses called all of Israel and said to them, "You have witnessed all that the LORD did before your eyes in the land of Egypt against Pharaoh, his servants, and all his land.  
The great trials that your eyes have seen, the signs, and those mighty miracles:  
Yet the LORD has not given you a heart to understand, eyes to see, and ears to hear, until this day.  
I have led you for forty years in the wilderness; your clothes have not worn out on you, and your sandals have not worn out on your feet.  
You have not eaten bread, nor have you drunk wine or strong drink, so that you may know that I am the LORD your God.  
When you came to this place, Sihon, the king of Heshbon, and Og, the king of Bashan, came out to battle against us, and we defeated them.  
We took their land and gave it as an inheritance to the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh.  
Therefore, keep the words of this covenant and do them, so that you may prosper in all that you do.  
You stand today, all of you, before the LORD your God: your captains of your tribes, your elders, your officers, and all the men of Israel,  
Your little ones, your wives, and the foreigner who is in your camp, from the woodcutter to the water drawer:  
So that you may enter into covenant with the LORD your God, and into His oath, which the LORD your God makes with you today:  
That He may establish you today as a people for Himself, and that He may be your God, as He has said to you and as He swore to your fathers, to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.  
I do not make this covenant and this oath only with you;  
But with him who stands here with us today before the LORD our God, and also with him who is not here with us today:  
(For you know how we lived in the land of Egypt and how we passed through the nations you came by;  
And you have seen their detestable practices and their idols, made of wood and stone, silver and gold, which were among them:)  
Lest there be among you a man, woman, family, or tribe whose heart turns away today from the LORD our God to go and serve the gods of these nations; lest there be among you a root that bears gall and wormwood;  
And it shall come to pass, when he hears the words of this curse, that he blesses himself in his heart, saying, 'I shall have peace, though I walk in the imagination of my heart, to add drunkenness to thirst.'  
The LORD will not spare him, but then the anger of the LORD and His jealousy shall burn against that man, and all the curses that are written in this book shall rest upon him, and the LORD shall blot out his name from under heaven.  
The LORD shall separate him for evil out of all the tribes of Israel, according to all the curses of the covenant that are written in this book of the law:  
So that the generation to come, your children who rise up after you, and the foreigner who comes from a far land, shall say, when they see the plagues of that land and the sicknesses which the LORD has laid upon it;  
And that the whole land is brimstone, salt, and burning, that it is not sown, nor bears, nor does any grass grow therein, like the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah, Admah, and Zeboim, which the LORD overthrew in His anger and wrath:  
Even all nations shall say, 'Why has the LORD done this to this land? What does the heat of this great anger mean?'  
Then men shall say, 'Because they have forsaken the covenant of the LORD God of their fathers, which He made with them when He brought them out of the land of Egypt;  
For they went and served other gods and worshipped them, gods whom they did not know and whom He had not given to them:  
And the anger of the LORD was kindled against this land, to bring upon it all the curses that are written in this book:  
And the LORD rooted them out of their land in anger, wrath, and great indignation, and cast them into another land, as it is this day.  
The secret things belong to the LORD our God, but those things which are revealed belong to us and to our children forever, that we may do all the words of this law.