Hear, O Israel: You are to cross over the Jordan today to enter and possess nations greater and mightier than yourselves, cities that are large and fortified up to the heavens.  
A people great and tall, the descendants of the Anakim, whom you know and have heard of, saying, "Who can stand before the children of Anak?"  
Understand, therefore, this day that the LORD your God is the one who goes before you; as a consuming fire, He will destroy them and bring them down before you. Thus, you shall drive them out and destroy them quickly, as the LORD has said to you.  
Do not say in your heart, after the LORD your God has cast them out before you, "It is because of my righteousness that the LORD has brought me in to possess this land," but rather, "It is because of the wickedness of these nations that the LORD drives them out before you."  
It is not for your righteousness or for the uprightness of your heart that you are going in to possess their land, but for the wickedness of these nations that the LORD your God drives them out before you, and to fulfill the word which the LORD swore to your fathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.  
Understand, therefore, that the LORD your God is not giving you this good land to possess because of your righteousness; for you are a stiff-necked people.  
Remember and do not forget how you provoked the LORD your God to anger in the wilderness; from the day you departed from the land of Egypt until you came to this place, you have been rebellious against the LORD.  
Also at Horeb, you provoked the LORD to anger, so that He was angry enough to destroy you.  
When I went up to the mountain to receive the tablets of stone, the tablets of the covenant which the LORD made with you, I stayed on the mountain for forty days and forty nights; I neither ate bread nor drank water.  
And the LORD gave me two tablets of stone written with the finger of God; and on them were written all the words that the LORD spoke with you on the mountain from the midst of the fire on the day of the assembly.  
At the end of forty days and forty nights, the LORD gave me the two tablets of stone, the tablets of the covenant.  
And the LORD said to me, "Arise, go down quickly from here; for your people whom you brought out of Egypt have corrupted themselves; they have quickly turned aside from the way I commanded them; they have made for themselves a molten image."  
Furthermore, the LORD spoke to me, saying, "I have seen this people, and behold, it is a stiff-necked people.  
Let Me alone, that I may destroy them and blot out their name from under heaven; and I will make of you a nation mightier and greater than they."  
So I turned and came down from the mountain, and the mountain burned with fire; and the two tablets of the covenant were in my hands.  
And I looked, and behold, you had sinned against the LORD your God, and had made for yourselves a molten calf; you had quickly turned aside from the way that the LORD had commanded you.  
And I took the two tablets and cast them out of my hands and broke them before your eyes.  
Then I fell down before the LORD, as I had done the first time, for forty days and forty nights; I neither ate bread nor drank water because of all your sins which you committed, doing wickedly in the sight of the LORD to provoke Him to anger.  
For I was afraid of the anger and hot displeasure with which the LORD was angry enough to destroy you. But the LORD listened to me at that time also.  
And the LORD was very angry with Aaron to have destroyed him; and I prayed for Aaron at that same time.  
I took your sin, the calf which you had made, and burned it with fire, and stamped it, and ground it very small, until it was as fine as dust; and I cast the dust into the brook that descended from the mountain.  
And at Taberah, and at Massah, and at Kibrothhattaavah, you provoked the LORD to anger.  
Likewise, when the LORD sent you from Kadeshbarnea, saying, "Go up and possess the land which I have given you," then you rebelled against the commandment of the LORD your God, and you did not believe Him or listen to His voice.  
You have been rebellious against the LORD from the day I knew you.  
Thus, I fell down before the LORD for forty days and forty nights, as I had done the first time; because the LORD had said He would destroy you.  
I prayed therefore to the LORD, and said, "O Lord GOD, do not destroy Your people and Your inheritance, which You have redeemed through Your greatness, which You brought out of Egypt with a mighty hand.  
Remember Your servants, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob; do not look at the stubbornness of this people, nor at their wickedness or their sin.  
Lest the land from which You brought us out say, 'Because the LORD was not able to bring them into the land which He promised them, and because He hated them, He has brought them out to slay them in the wilderness.'  
Yet they are Your people and Your inheritance, which You brought out by Your mighty power and by Your outstretched arm.