The hand of the LORD was upon me, and He carried me out in the spirit of the LORD, setting me down in the midst of a valley filled with bones.
He caused me to pass by them all around, and behold, there were very many in the open valley; indeed, they were very dry.
He asked me, "Son of man, can these bones live?" I replied, "O Lord GOD, You know."
Again, He said to me, "Prophesy to these bones, and say to them, 'O you dry bones, hear the word of the LORD.'"
Thus says the Lord GOD to these bones: "Behold, I will cause breath to enter you, and you shall live."
"I will lay sinews upon you, bring up flesh upon you, cover you with skin, and put breath in you; then you shall live, and you will know that I am the LORD."
So I prophesied as I was commanded, and as I prophesied, there was a noise, and behold, a shaking, and the bones came together, bone to its bone.
When I looked, the sinews and flesh came upon them, and the skin covered them, but there was no breath in them.
Then He said to me, "Prophesy to the wind, prophesy, son of man, and say to the wind, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: Come from the four winds, O breath, and breathe upon these slain, that they may live.'"
So I prophesied as He commanded me, and the breath entered them, and they lived, standing upon their feet, an exceedingly great army.
Then He said to me, "Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel. Behold, they say, 'Our bones are dried up, and our hope is lost; we are cut off for our parts.'"
Therefore, prophesy and say to them, "Thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, O My people, I will open your graves and bring you up out of your graves, and bring you into the land of Israel."
And you shall know that I am the LORD when I have opened your graves, O My people, and brought you up out of your graves.
I will put My Spirit in you, and you shall live; I will place you in your own land. Then you shall know that I, the LORD, have spoken it and performed it, says the LORD.
The word of the LORD came again to me, saying,
"Moreover, son of man, take one stick and write upon it, 'For Judah and for the children of Israel his companions.' Then take another stick and write upon it, 'For Joseph, the stick of Ephraim, and for all the house of Israel his companions.'
Join them one to another into one stick, and they shall become one in your hand.
When the children of your people speak to you, saying, 'Will you not show us what you mean by these?'
Say to them, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I will take the stick of Joseph, which is in the hand of Ephraim, and the tribes of Israel his fellows, and put them with him, even with the stick of Judah, and make them one stick, and they shall be one in My hand.'
The sticks on which you write shall be in your hand before their eyes.
Say to them, 'Thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I will take the children of Israel from among the nations where they have gone, gather them on every side, and bring them into their own land.
I will make them one nation in the land upon the mountains of Israel; one king shall be king over them all, and they shall no longer be two nations, nor shall they be divided into two kingdoms anymore.
They shall not defile themselves anymore with their idols, nor with their detestable things, nor with any of their transgressions; but I will save them from all their dwelling places where they have sinned, and I will cleanse them. They shall be My people, and I will be their God.
David My servant shall be king over them, and they shall all have one shepherd. They shall also walk in My judgments, observe My statutes, and do them.
They shall dwell in the land that I have given to Jacob My servant, where your fathers have dwelt; they shall dwell there, they and their children, and their children's children forever. My servant David shall be their prince forever.
Moreover, I will make a covenant of peace with them; it shall be an everlasting covenant with them. I will place them, multiply them, and set My sanctuary in the midst of them forever.
My tabernacle shall also be with them; yes, I will be their God, and they shall be My people.
The nations shall know that I, the LORD, sanctify Israel when My sanctuary is in the midst of them forever."
