Rejoice not, O Israel, for joy like other people; for you have strayed from your God, and you have loved rewards on every cornfield.  
The floor and the winepress will not sustain them, and the new wine will fail her.  
They will not dwell in the LORD's land; instead, Ephraim will return to Egypt, and they will consume unclean things in Assyria.  
They will not offer wine offerings to the LORD, nor will they be pleasing to Him: their sacrifices will be like the bread of mourners; all who eat of it will be defiled, for their bread for their soul will not enter the house of the LORD.  
What will you do on the solemn day, and on the day of the feast of the LORD?  
For behold, they are gone because of destruction: Egypt will gather them, Memphis will bury them; the pleasant places for their silver will be possessed by nettles, and thorns will be in their tents.  
The days of visitation have come, the days of recompense have arrived; Israel will know it: the prophet is a fool, the spiritual man is mad, because of the multitude of your iniquity and the great hatred.  
The watchman of Ephraim was with my God; but the prophet is a snare of a fowler in all his ways, and there is hatred in the house of his God.  
They have deeply corrupted themselves, as in the days of Gibeah; therefore He will remember their iniquity, He will visit their sins.  
I found Israel like grapes in the wilderness; I saw your fathers as the first ripe in the fig tree at its first season: but they went to Baalpeor and separated themselves to that shame; their abominations were according to their desires.  
As for Ephraim, their glory will fly away like a bird, from birth, from the womb, and from conception.  
Though they raise their children, yet I will bereave them, so that not a man will be left; woe also to them when I depart from them!  
Ephraim, as I saw Tyre, is planted in a pleasant place; but Ephraim will bring forth his children to the murderer.  
Give them, O LORD: what will You give? Give them a miscarrying womb and dry breasts.  
All their wickedness is in Gilgal; for there I hated them: because of the wickedness of their deeds, I will drive them out of My house, I will love them no more; all their princes are rebels.  
Ephraim is stricken, their root is dried up; they will bear no fruit: even if they bring forth, I will slay the beloved fruit of their womb.  
My God will cast them away because they did not listen to Him; and they will be wanderers among the nations.