Hezekiah began to reign when he was twenty-five years old, and he reigned for twenty-nine years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Abijah, the daughter of Zechariah.
He did what was right in the sight of the LORD, following the example of his father David.
In the first year of his reign, during the first month, he opened the doors of the house of the LORD and repaired them.
He gathered the priests and the Levites together in the east street,
and said to them, "Listen to me, Levites. Sanctify yourselves now, and sanctify the house of the LORD God of your fathers. Remove the filthiness from the holy place.
For our ancestors have sinned and done evil in the eyes of the LORD our God. They have forsaken Him and turned their faces away from the dwelling place of the LORD, turning their backs on Him.
They have also shut the doors of the porch, extinguished the lamps, and have not burned incense or offered burnt offerings in the holy place to the God of Israel.
Therefore, the wrath of the LORD has come upon Judah and Jerusalem, and He has delivered them to trouble, astonishment, and hissing, as you can see with your own eyes.
For indeed, our ancestors have fallen by the sword, and our sons, daughters, and wives are in captivity because of this.
Now it is in my heart to make a covenant with the LORD God of Israel, so that His fierce wrath may turn away from us.
My sons, do not be negligent now, for the LORD has chosen you to stand before Him, to serve Him, and to minister to Him by burning incense.
Then the Levites arose: Mahath the son of Amasai, and Joel the son of Azariah, from the Kohathites; Kish the son of Abdi, and Azariah the son of Jehalelel, from the Merarites; Joah the son of Zimmah, and Eden the son of Joah, from the Gershonites;
And from the sons of Elizaphan: Shimri and Jeiel; and from the sons of Asaph: Zechariah and Mattaniah;
And from the sons of Heman: Jehiel and Shimei; and from the sons of Jeduthun: Shemaiah and Uzziel.
They gathered their brethren, sanctified themselves, and came, according to the commandment of the king, by the words of the LORD, to cleanse the house of the LORD.
The priests went into the inner part of the house of the LORD to cleanse it, and they brought out all the uncleanness they found in the temple of the LORD into the court of the house of the LORD. The Levites took it to carry it out to the brook Kidron.
They began on the first day of the first month to sanctify, and on the eighth day of the month, they came to the porch of the LORD. They sanctified the house of the LORD in eight days, and on the sixteenth day of the first month, they completed the work.
Then they went to King Hezekiah and said, "We have cleansed all the house of the LORD, the altar of burnt offering, and all its vessels, as well as the table for the showbread and all its vessels."
Moreover, all the vessels that King Ahaz discarded during his reign in his transgression have been prepared and sanctified, and behold, they are before the altar of the LORD.
Then King Hezekiah rose early, gathered the rulers of the city, and went up to the house of the LORD.
They brought seven bullocks, seven rams, seven lambs, and seven male goats for a sin offering for the kingdom, the sanctuary, and for Judah. He commanded the priests, the sons of Aaron, to offer them on the altar of the LORD.
So they killed the bullocks, and the priests received the blood and sprinkled it on the altar. Likewise, when they had killed the rams, they sprinkled the blood upon the altar. They also killed the lambs and sprinkled the blood upon the altar.
They brought forth the male goats for the sin offering before the king and the congregation, and they laid their hands upon them.
The priests killed them, and they made reconciliation with their blood upon the altar to atone for all Israel, for the king commanded that the burnt offering and the sin offering should be made for all Israel.
He appointed the Levites in the house of the LORD with cymbals, psalteries, and harps, according to the commandment of David, Gad the king's seer, and Nathan the prophet, for so was the commandment of the LORD by His prophets.
The Levites stood with the instruments of David, and the priests with the trumpets.
Hezekiah commanded to offer the burnt offering upon the altar. When the burnt offering began, the song of the LORD began also with the trumpets and with the instruments ordained by David, king of Israel.
All the congregation worshipped, the singers sang, and the trumpeters sounded, and all this continued until the burnt offering was finished.
When they had completed the offering, the king and all who were present with him bowed themselves and worshipped.
Moreover, King Hezekiah and the princes commanded the Levites to sing praise to the LORD with the words of David and Asaph the seer. They sang praises with gladness, and they bowed their heads and worshipped.
Then Hezekiah answered and said, "Now that you have consecrated yourselves to the LORD, come near and bring sacrifices and thank offerings into the house of the LORD." The congregation brought in sacrifices and thank offerings, and as many as were of a free heart brought burnt offerings.
The number of burnt offerings that the congregation brought was seventy bullocks, one hundred rams, and two hundred lambs; all these were for a burnt offering to the LORD.
The consecrated things included six hundred oxen and three thousand sheep.
But the priests were too few to flay all the burnt offerings, so their brethren the Levites helped them until the work was completed, and until the other priests had sanctified themselves, for the Levites were more upright in heart to sanctify themselves than the priests.
The burnt offerings were in abundance, along with the fat of the peace offerings and the drink offerings for every burnt offering. Thus, the service of the house of the LORD was set in order.
Hezekiah rejoiced, and all the people were glad that God had prepared the people, for the thing was done suddenly.
