We then turned and began our journey into the wilderness by the way of the Red Sea, as the LORD commanded me; we circled Mount Seir for many days.
And the LORD spoke to me, saying,
"You have circled this mountain long enough; turn northward."
And command the people, saying, "You are to pass through the territory of your brethren, the children of Esau, who dwell in Seir; they will be afraid of you, so take good care of yourselves.
Do not engage with them, for I will not give you any of their land, not even a foot's breadth, because I have given Mount Seir to Esau as a possession.
You shall buy food from them for money so that you may eat, and you shall also buy water from them for money so that you may drink.
For the LORD your God has blessed you in all the work of your hands; He knows your journey through this great wilderness. For forty years, the LORD your God has been with you; you have lacked nothing.
And when we passed by our brethren, the children of Esau, who dwelt in Seir, through the plain from Elath and from Eziongaber, we turned and passed by the wilderness of Moab.
And the LORD said to me, "Do not distress the Moabites, nor engage them in battle, for I will not give you any of their land as a possession; I have given Ar to the children of Lot as a possession."
The Emims lived there in the past, a great and numerous people, tall like the Anakims;
They were also considered giants, as the Anakims were, but the Moabites called them Emims.
The Horims also dwelt in Seir in former times, but the children of Esau succeeded them after they had destroyed them and settled in their place, just as Israel did in the land of their possession, which the LORD gave them.
"Now rise up," I said, "and cross over the brook Zered." So we crossed over the brook Zered.
The time we spent from Kadeshbarnea until we crossed over the brook Zered was thirty-eight years, until all the generation of the men of war had perished from the camp, as the LORD swore to them.
Indeed, the hand of the LORD was against them to destroy them from the camp until they were consumed.
So it came to pass that when all the men of war had perished and were dead from among the people,
The LORD spoke to me, saying,
"You are to pass over through Ar, the territory of Moab, today.
And when you come near the children of Ammon, do not distress them or engage with them, for I will not give you any of the land of the children of Ammon as a possession; I have given it to the children of Lot as a possession."
(This land was also considered a land of giants; giants lived there in ancient times, and the Ammonites called them Zamzummims;
A great and numerous people, tall like the Anakims; but the LORD destroyed them before the Ammonites, who succeeded them and settled in their place.
As He did for the children of Esau, who dwelt in Seir, when He destroyed the Horims before them, and they succeeded them and dwelt in their place even to this day.
And the Avims, who dwelt in Hazerim, even to Azzah, the Caphtorims, who came from Caphtor, destroyed them and settled in their place.)
"Rise up, take your journey, and cross over the river Arnon; behold, I have given into your hand Sihon the Amorite, king of Heshbon, and his land; begin to possess it and contend with him in battle.
This day I will begin to put the dread of you and the fear of you upon all the nations under the whole heaven, who will hear reports of you and tremble and be in anguish because of you."
And I sent messengers from the wilderness of Kedemoth to Sihon, king of Heshbon, with words of peace, saying,
"Let me pass through your land; I will go along the highway, and I will neither turn to the right nor to the left.
You shall sell me food for money so that I may eat, and give me water for money so that I may drink; only let me pass through on foot,
(As the children of Esau who dwell in Seir and the Moabites who dwell in Ar did to me) until I cross over the Jordan into the land which the LORD our God is giving us."
But Sihon, king of Heshbon, would not let us pass through, for the LORD your God hardened his spirit and made his heart obstinate, that He might deliver him into your hand, as it is evident this day.
And the LORD said to me, "Behold, I have begun to give Sihon and his land into your hand; begin to possess it, that you may inherit his land."
Then Sihon came out against us, he and all his people, to fight at Jahaz.
And the LORD our God delivered him into our hands; we struck him, his sons, and all his people.
We took all his cities at that time and utterly destroyed the men, women, and little ones of every city; we left none to remain.
Only the livestock we took as plunder for ourselves, and the spoils of the cities we captured.
From Aroer, which is by the edge of the river Arnon, and from the city that is by the river, even to Gilead, there was not one city too strong for us; the LORD our God delivered all to us.
Only to the land of the children of Ammon did you not go, nor to any place along the river Jabbok, nor to the cities in the mountains, nor to anything the LORD our God forbade us.
