Do not judge, so that you will not be judged.  
For with the judgment you use, you will be judged; and with the measure you give, it will be measured back to you.  
And why do you notice the speck in your brother's eye, but do not consider the log in your own eye?  
Or how can you say to your brother, "Let me take the speck out of your eye," when there is a log in your own eye?  
You hypocrite, first remove the log from your own eye; then you will see clearly to remove the speck from your brother's eye.  
Do not give what is holy to dogs, nor cast your pearls before swine, lest they trample them underfoot and turn to attack you.  
Ask, and it will be given to you; seek, and you will find; knock, and it will be opened to you.  
For everyone who asks receives; and he who seeks finds; and to him who knocks, it will be opened.  
Or what man among you, if his son asks for bread, will give him a stone?  
Or if he asks for a fish, will he give him a serpent?  
If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father in heaven give good things to those who ask Him?  
Therefore, whatever you wish that others would do to you, do also to them, for this is the law and the prophets.  
Enter through the narrow gate; for wide is the gate and broad is the way that leads to destruction, and many enter through it.  
Because narrow is the gate and difficult is the way that leads to life, and few find it.  
Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly are ravenous wolves.  
You will recognize them by their fruits. Do people gather grapes from thornbushes, or figs from thistles?  
So every good tree bears good fruit, but a bad tree bears bad fruit.  
A good tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a bad tree bear good fruit.  
Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire.  
Thus, by their fruits you will recognize them.  
Not everyone who says to me, "Lord, Lord," will enter the kingdom of heaven, but only the one who does the will of my Father in heaven.  
Many will say to me on that day, "Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name, and in your name cast out demons, and in your name perform many miracles?"  
Then I will declare to them, "I never knew you; depart from me, you workers of iniquity."  
Therefore, everyone who hears these words of mine and puts them into practice is like a wise man who built his house on the rock.  
The rain fell, the floods came, and the winds blew and beat against that house; yet it did not fall, because it was founded on the rock.  
And everyone who hears these words of mine and does not put them into practice is like a foolish man who built his house on the sand.  
The rain fell, the floods came, and the winds blew and beat against that house; and it fell, and great was its fall.  
And when Jesus had finished saying these things, the crowds were amazed at his teaching,  
For he taught them as one having authority, and not as their scribes.