I am the man who has experienced affliction through the rod of His wrath.
He has led me and brought me into darkness, yet not into light.
Surely, He is turned against me; He turns His hand against me all day long.
My flesh and skin He has made old; He has broken my bones.
He has built a fortress against me and surrounded me with bitterness and hardship.
He has placed me in dark places, like those who have long been dead.
He has enclosed me so that I cannot escape; He has made my chains heavy.
Even when I cry out and shout, He shuts out my prayer.
He has enclosed my paths with hewn stone; He has made my ways crooked.
He is like a bear lying in wait for me, like a lion in secret places.
He has turned my paths aside and torn me to pieces; He has made me desolate.
He has bent His bow and set me as a target for the arrow.
He has caused the arrows from His quiver to pierce my innermost being.
I have become a derision to all my people; their song is directed at me all day long.
He has filled me with bitterness; He has made me drunk with wormwood.
He has also broken my teeth with gravel; He has covered me with ashes.
And You have removed my soul far from peace; I have forgotten prosperity.
And I said, "My strength and my hope have perished from the LORD."
Remembering my affliction and my misery, the wormwood and the gall.
My soul still remembers them and is humbled within me.
This I bring to mind, therefore I have hope.
It is because of the LORD's mercies that we are not consumed, for His compassions do not fail.
They are new every morning; great is Your faithfulness.
The LORD is my portion, says my soul; therefore, I will hope in Him.
The LORD is good to those who wait for Him, to the soul that seeks Him.
It is good for a man to hope and quietly wait for the salvation of the LORD.
It is good for a man to bear the yoke in his youth.
He sits alone and keeps silence, for he has borne it upon himself.
He puts his mouth in the dust; perhaps there is hope.
He gives his cheek to the one who strikes him; he is filled with reproach.
For the LORD will not cast off forever;
But though He causes grief, yet He will have compassion according to the multitude of His mercies.
For He does not afflict willingly nor grieve the children of men.
To crush underfoot all the prisoners of the earth.
To turn aside the right of a man before the face of the Most High,
To subvert a man in his cause, the LORD does not approve.
Who is he that says, and it comes to pass, when the Lord has not commanded it?
Out of the mouth of the Most High does not both evil and good proceed?
Why should a living man complain, a man for the punishment of his sins?
Let us search and examine our ways, and return to the LORD.
Let us lift up our hearts and our hands to God in heaven.
We have transgressed and rebelled; You have not pardoned.
You have covered us with anger and pursued us; You have slain, and You have not shown pity.
You have wrapped Yourself in a cloud so that our prayer cannot pass through.
You have made us like refuse and offscouring in the midst of the people.
All our enemies have opened their mouths against us.
Fear and a snare have come upon us, desolation and destruction.
My eye runs down with rivers of water for the destruction of the daughter of my people.
My eye trickles down and does not cease, without any intermission.
Until the LORD looks down and sees from heaven.
My eye affects my heart because of all the daughters of my city.
My enemies have pursued me fiercely, like a bird, without cause.
They have cut off my life in the dungeon and cast a stone upon me.
Waters flowed over my head; then I said, "I am cut off."
I called upon Your name, O LORD, from the depths of the dungeon.
You have heard my voice; do not hide Your ear from my breathing, from my cry.
You drew near on the day I called upon You; You said, "Do not fear."
O LORD, You have pleaded the causes of my soul; You have redeemed my life.
O LORD, You have seen my wrong; judge my cause.
You have seen all their vengeance and all their plots against me.
You have heard their reproach, O LORD, and all their plots against me;
The lips of those who rise up against me and their schemes against me all day long.
Behold their sitting down and their rising up; I am their music.
Render to them a recompense, O LORD, according to the work of their hands.
Give them sorrow of heart; Your curse upon them.
Pursue and destroy them in anger from under the heavens of the LORD.
