When Jethro, the priest of Midian and Moses' father-in-law, heard about all that God had done for Moses and for Israel, His people, and that the LORD had brought Israel out of Egypt,  
Then Jethro, Moses' father-in-law, took Zipporah, Moses' wife, after he had sent her back,  
Along with her two sons; the name of one was Gershom, for he said, "I have been a stranger in a foreign land."  
The name of the other was Eliezer, for he said, "The God of my father was my help and delivered me from the sword of Pharaoh."  
And Jethro, Moses' father-in-law, came with his sons and his wife to Moses in the wilderness, where he was encamped at the mountain of God.  
He said to Moses, "I, your father-in-law Jethro, have come to you, along with your wife and her two sons."  
Moses went out to meet his father-in-law, bowed down, and kissed him; they asked each other about their well-being and then went into the tent.  
Moses told his father-in-law all that the LORD had done to Pharaoh and the Egyptians for Israel's sake, and all the hardships that had come upon them along the way, and how the LORD had delivered them.  
Jethro rejoiced for all the goodness that the LORD had done for Israel, whom He had delivered from the hand of the Egyptians.  
Jethro said, "Blessed be the LORD, who has delivered you from the hand of the Egyptians and from the hand of Pharaoh, and who has delivered the people from under the hand of the Egyptians."  
"Now I know that the LORD is greater than all gods, for in the very matter in which they dealt proudly, He was above them."  
And Jethro, Moses' father-in-law, took a burnt offering and sacrifices for God; and Aaron came, along with all the elders of Israel, to eat bread with Moses' father-in-law before God.  
The next day, Moses sat to judge the people, and the people stood by Moses from morning until evening.  
When Moses' father-in-law saw all that he was doing for the people, he asked, "What is this thing you are doing for the people? Why do you sit alone, and all the people stand by you from morning until evening?"  
Moses replied to his father-in-law, "Because the people come to me to inquire of God.  
When they have a dispute, they come to me, and I judge between one person and another, and I make them know the statutes of God and His laws."  
Moses' father-in-law said to him, "What you are doing is not good.  
You will surely wear yourself out, both you and these people who are with you, for the task is too heavy for you; you cannot handle it alone."  
"Now listen to my voice; I will give you counsel, and God will be with you. You be for the people before God, that you may bring the causes to God.  
And you shall teach them ordinances and laws, and show them the way in which they must walk and the work they must do."  
"Moreover, you shall select from all the people able men who fear God, men of truth, hating covetousness; and place such over them to be rulers of thousands, hundreds, fifties, and tens."  
"Let them judge the people at all times; and it shall be that every great matter they shall bring to you, but every small matter they shall judge themselves. So it will be easier for you, and they will bear the burden with you."  
"If you do this thing, and God commands you so, then you will be able to endure, and all this people will also go to their place in peace."  
So Moses heeded the voice of his father-in-law and did all that he had said.  
Moses chose able men from all Israel and made them heads over the people, rulers of thousands, hundreds, fifties, and tens.  
They judged the people at all times; the hard cases they brought to Moses, but every small matter they judged themselves.  
Moses let his father-in-law depart, and he went his way to his own land.