Do not worry about evildoers, nor be envious of those who commit wrongdoing.  
For they will soon be cut down like grass and wither like green herbs.  
Trust in the LORD and do good; then you will dwell in the land and be nourished.  
Take delight in the LORD, and He will grant you the desires of your heart.  
Commit your way to the LORD; trust in Him, and He will make it happen.  
He will bring forth your righteousness like the dawn and your justice like the midday sun.  
Rest in the LORD and wait patiently for Him; do not fret over those who prosper in their ways, over those who carry out wicked schemes.  
Refrain from anger and abandon wrath; do not fret, for it only leads to evil.  
For evildoers will be cut off, but those who hope in the LORD will inherit the earth.  
In just a little while, the wicked will be no more; you will look for their place, and it will not be found.  
But the meek will inherit the earth and enjoy abundant peace.  
The wicked plot against the righteous and gnash their teeth at them.  
The LORD laughs at them, for He knows their day is coming.  
The wicked draw their swords and bend their bows to bring down the poor and needy, to slay those whose conduct is upright.  
Their swords will pierce their own hearts, and their bows will be broken.  
A little that a righteous person has is better than the wealth of many wicked.  
For the arms of the wicked will be broken, but the LORD supports the righteous.  
The LORD knows the days of the upright, and their inheritance will last forever.  
They will not be put to shame in times of trouble; in days of famine, they will be satisfied.  
But the wicked will perish, and the enemies of the LORD will vanish like smoke.  
The wicked borrow and do not repay, but the righteous show mercy and give.  
Those blessed by Him will inherit the earth, but those cursed by Him will be cut off.  
The steps of a good person are established by the LORD, and He delights in their way.  
Though they stumble, they will not fall, for the LORD upholds them with His hand.  
I have been young, and now I am old; yet I have never seen the righteous forsaken or their children begging for bread.  
They are always generous and lend freely; their children are a blessing.  
Turn away from evil and do good; then you will dwell forever.  
For the LORD loves justice and will not forsake His faithful ones; they will be preserved forever, but the offspring of the wicked will be cut off.  
The righteous will inherit the land and dwell in it forever.  
The mouth of the righteous speaks wisdom, and their tongue utters justice.  
The law of their God is in their heart; their steps do not slip.  
The wicked watch the righteous and seek to kill them.  
The LORD will not leave them in their power or let them be condemned when brought to trial.  
Wait for the LORD and keep His way; He will exalt you to inherit the land; when the wicked are cut off, you will see it.  
I have seen the wicked in great power, spreading themselves like a green bay tree.  
Yet they passed away, and behold, they were no more; I sought them, but they could not be found.  
Consider the blameless and observe the upright; there is a future for the peaceable.  
But all sinners will be destroyed; the future of the wicked will be cut off.  
The salvation of the righteous comes from the LORD; He is their stronghold in times of trouble.  
The LORD helps them and delivers them; He rescues them from the wicked and saves them because they take refuge in Him.