And the word of the LORD came to me, saying,  
"Son of man, set your face toward the mountains of Israel and prophesy against them.  
And say, 'You mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord GOD; thus says the Lord GOD to the mountains, the hills, the rivers, and the valleys: Behold, I, even I, will bring a sword upon you, and I will destroy your high places.  
Your altars shall be desolate, and your images shall be broken; I will cast down your slain men before your idols.  
I will lay the dead bodies of the children of Israel before their idols, and I will scatter your bones around your altars.  
In all your dwelling places, the cities shall be laid waste, and the high places shall be desolate; so that your altars may be laid waste and made desolate, your idols may be broken and cease, your images may be cut down, and your works may be abolished.  
The slain shall fall in your midst, and you shall know that I am the LORD.  
Yet I will leave a remnant, so that some may escape the sword among the nations when you are scattered through the countries.  
Those who escape will remember me among the nations to which they are carried captive, because I am broken by their unfaithful heart that has departed from me, and by their eyes that go whoring after their idols; they shall loathe themselves for the evils they have committed in all their abominations.  
They shall know that I am the LORD, and that I have not spoken in vain that I would do this evil to them.  
Thus says the Lord GOD: Strike with your hand and stamp with your foot, and say, 'Alas for all the evil abominations of the house of Israel! For they shall fall by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence.  
He who is far off shall die of the pestilence; he who is near shall fall by the sword; and he who remains besieged shall die by famine: thus will I accomplish my fury upon them.  
Then you shall know that I am the LORD, when their slain men shall be among their idols around their altars, upon every high hill, on all the tops of the mountains, under every green tree, and under every thick oak, the places where they offered sweet aroma to all their idols.  
So I will stretch out my hand upon them and make the land desolate, yes, more desolate than the wilderness toward Diblath, in all their habitations; and they shall know that I am the LORD."