I will stand upon my watch, positioning myself on the tower, and I will observe to see what he will say to me, and how I should respond when I am corrected.
And the LORD answered me, saying, "Write the vision and make it clear on tablets, so that anyone who reads it may run with it."
For the vision is for an appointed time; at the end, it will speak and not lie. Though it may delay, wait for it, for it will surely come; it will not be late.
Behold, his soul is not upright within him, but the righteous shall live by their faith.
Indeed, he transgresses through wine; he is a proud man who does not stay at home, enlarging his desires like hell, and is insatiable, gathering all nations to himself and heaping up all peoples.
Will not all these take up a parable against him, and a taunting proverb, saying, "Woe to him who increases what is not his! How long? And to him who loads himself with thick clay!"
Will they not rise up suddenly to bite you, and awaken those who will vex you, and you will become their plunder?
Because you have plundered many nations, all the remnant of the people will plunder you; because of the blood of men, and for the violence done to the land, the city, and all who dwell therein.
Woe to him who covets evil gain for his house, to set his nest on high, to be delivered from the power of evil!
You have brought shame upon your house by cutting off many people, and you have sinned against your own soul.
For the stone will cry out from the wall, and the beam from the timber will answer it.
Woe to him who builds a city with bloodshed, and establishes a town by iniquity!
Behold, is it not from the LORD of hosts that the people labor for fire, and the nations weary themselves for nothing?
For the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the LORD, as the waters cover the sea.
Woe to him who gives drink to his neighbor, pouring out your bottle and making him drunk, so that you may gaze upon their nakedness!
You are filled with shame instead of glory; drink, you also, and let your foreskin be uncovered. The cup of the LORD's right hand will be turned against you, and shameful spewing will be upon your glory.
For the violence of Lebanon will cover you, and the spoil of beasts will terrify you, because of the blood of men, and for the violence done to the land, the city, and all who dwell therein.
What profit is there in the graven image that its maker has carved? The molten image, and a teacher of lies, in which the maker trusts to create dumb idols?
Woe to him who says to the wood, "Awake!" and to the dumb stone, "Arise! It shall teach!" Behold, it is covered with gold and silver, and there is no breath at all in the midst of it.
But the LORD is in His holy temple; let all the earth keep silence before Him.
