And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the children of Israel, saying, If a person sins through ignorance against any of the commandments of the LORD regarding things that should not be done, and acts against any of them:
If the anointed priest sins in accordance with the sin of the people, then let him bring for his sin, which he has committed, a young bull without blemish to the LORD for a sin offering.
He shall bring the bull to the entrance of the tabernacle of the congregation before the LORD; and he shall lay his hand on the bull's head and kill the bull before the LORD.
The anointed priest shall take some of the bull's blood and bring it to the tabernacle of the congregation:
The priest shall dip his finger in the blood and sprinkle it seven times before the LORD, in front of the veil of the sanctuary.
The priest shall put some of the blood on the horns of the altar of sweet incense before the LORD, which is in the tabernacle of the congregation, and shall pour all the blood of the bull at the base of the altar of burnt offering, which is at the entrance of the tabernacle of the congregation.
He shall remove all the fat from the bull for the sin offering; the fat that covers the innards, and all the fat that is on the innards,
And the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the flanks, and the caul above the liver, with the kidneys, he shall remove,
As it is removed from the bull of the peace offerings: and the priest shall burn them on the altar of burnt offering.
The skin of the bull, and all its flesh, with its head, and its legs, and its innards, and its dung,
The entire bull shall be carried outside the camp to a clean place, where the ashes are poured out, and it shall be burned on the wood with fire: where the ashes are poured out, it shall be burned.
If the whole congregation of Israel sins through ignorance, and the matter is hidden from the eyes of the assembly, and they have acted against any of the commandments of the LORD regarding things that should not be done, and are guilty;
When the sin, which they have committed, is known, then the congregation shall offer a young bull for the sin and bring it before the tabernacle of the congregation.
The elders of the congregation shall lay their hands on the head of the bull before the LORD, and the bull shall be killed before the LORD.
The anointed priest shall bring some of the bull's blood to the tabernacle of the congregation:
The priest shall dip his finger in some of the blood and sprinkle it seven times before the LORD, even before the veil.
He shall put some of the blood on the horns of the altar that is before the LORD, which is in the tabernacle of the congregation, and shall pour out all the blood at the base of the altar of burnt offering, which is at the entrance of the tabernacle of the congregation.
He shall take all the fat from it and burn it on the altar.
He shall do with the bull as he did with the bull for a sin offering; so shall he do with this: and the priest shall make atonement for them, and it shall be forgiven them.
He shall carry the bull outside the camp and burn it as he burned the first bull: it is a sin offering for the congregation.
When a ruler has sinned and acted through ignorance against any of the commandments of the LORD his God regarding things that should not be done, and is guilty;
Or if his sin, which he has committed, comes to his knowledge, he shall bring his offering, a male kid of the goats without blemish:
He shall lay his hand on the head of the goat and kill it in the place where they kill the burnt offering before the LORD: it is a sin offering.
The priest shall take some of the blood of the sin offering with his finger and put it on the horns of the altar of burnt offering, and shall pour out its blood at the base of the altar of burnt offering.
He shall burn all its fat on the altar, as the fat of the peace offerings: and the priest shall make atonement for him concerning his sin, and it shall be forgiven him.
If any one of the common people sins through ignorance while doing something against any of the commandments of the LORD regarding things that should not be done, and is guilty;
Or if his sin, which he has committed, comes to his knowledge, then he shall bring his offering, a female kid of the goats without blemish, for his sin which he has committed.
He shall lay his hand on the head of the sin offering and kill the sin offering in the place of the burnt offering.
The priest shall take some of its blood with his finger and put it on the horns of the altar of burnt offering, and shall pour out all its blood at the base of the altar.
He shall remove all the fat from it, as the fat is removed from the peace offerings; and the priest shall burn it on the altar for a sweet aroma to the LORD; and the priest shall make atonement for him, and it shall be forgiven him.
If he brings a lamb for a sin offering, he shall bring a female without blemish.
He shall lay his hand on the head of the sin offering and kill it for a sin offering in the place where they kill the burnt offering.
The priest shall take some of the blood of the sin offering with his finger and put it on the horns of the altar of burnt offering, and shall pour out all its blood at the base of the altar:
He shall remove all the fat from it, as the fat of the lamb is removed from the peace offerings; and the priest shall burn them on the altar, according to the offerings made by fire to the LORD: and the priest shall make atonement for his sin that he has committed, and it shall be forgiven him.
