Then Jesus spoke to the crowd and to his disciples,
Saying, "The scribes and the Pharisees sit in Moses' seat.
Therefore, whatever they instruct you to observe, that observe and do; but do not follow their actions, for they say one thing and do another.
They bind heavy burdens that are difficult to bear and place them on people's shoulders; yet they themselves do not lift a finger to help.
All their works are done to be seen by others: they make their phylacteries broad and enlarge the borders of their garments,
And they love the places of honor at feasts and the best seats in the synagogues,
And greetings in the marketplaces, and to be called by men, 'Rabbi, Rabbi.'
But do not be called 'Rabbi,' for you have one Teacher, even Christ, and you are all brothers.
And do not call anyone on earth your father, for you have one Father, who is in heaven.
Nor be called teachers, for you have one Teacher, even Christ.
But the greatest among you shall be your servant.
And whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted.
But woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you shut the kingdom of heaven in people's faces; you neither enter yourselves nor allow those who are entering to go in.
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you devour widows' houses and, for a pretense, make long prayers; therefore, you will receive the greater condemnation.
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you travel over land and sea to make one proselyte, and when he is made, you make him twice as much a child of hell as yourselves.
Woe to you, blind guides, who say, 'Whoever swears by the temple, it is nothing; but whoever swears by the gold of the temple is obligated!'
You fools and blind! For which is greater, the gold, or the temple that sanctifies the gold?
And, 'Whoever swears by the altar, it is nothing; but whoever swears by the gift that is on it is guilty.'
You fools and blind! For which is greater, the gift, or the altar that sanctifies the gift?
Therefore, whoever swears by the altar swears by it and by everything on it.
And whoever swears by the temple swears by it and by him who dwells in it.
And whoever swears by heaven swears by the throne of God and by him who sits on it.
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you pay tithe of mint, anise, and cumin, but have neglected the weightier matters of the law: justice, mercy, and faith. These you ought to have done, without neglecting the others.
You blind guides, who strain out a gnat and swallow a camel!
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you clean the outside of the cup and the plate, but inside they are full of greed and self-indulgence.
You blind Pharisee! First cleanse the inside of the cup and the plate, that the outside may be clean also.
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you are like whitewashed tombs, which indeed appear beautiful outwardly, but inside are full of dead men's bones and all uncleanness.
Even so, you also outwardly appear righteous to men, but inside you are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness.
Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! Because you build the tombs of the prophets and adorn the monuments of the righteous,
And say, 'If we had lived in the days of our ancestors, we would not have taken part with them in shedding the blood of the prophets.'
So you testify against yourselves that you are the descendants of those who murdered the prophets.
Fill up, then, the measure of your ancestors!
You serpents, you brood of vipers, how can you escape the condemnation of hell?
Therefore, behold, I send you prophets, wise men, and scribes: some of them you will kill and crucify; and some of them you will scourge in your synagogues and persecute from city to city,
So that upon you may come all the righteous blood shed on the earth, from the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zechariah, son of Barachiah, whom you murdered between the temple and the altar.
Truly, I say to you, all these things will come upon this generation.
O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, you who kill the prophets and stone those sent to you, how often I have longed to gather your children together, as a hen gathers her chicks under her wings, and you were not willing!
Behold, your house is left to you desolate.
For I say to you, you will not see me again until you say, 'Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord.'"
