Does not wisdom cry out? And understanding raise her voice?  
She stands at the top of high places, along the way, at the crossroads.  
She cries out at the gates, at the entrance of the city, at the coming in of the doors.  
To you, O men, I call; and my voice is directed to the sons of mankind.  
O you simple ones, understand wisdom; and you fools, gain an understanding heart.  
Listen; for I will speak of excellent things, and the opening of my lips will reveal right things.  
For my mouth will speak truth; wickedness is an abomination to my lips.  
All the words of my mouth are in righteousness; there is nothing crooked or perverse in them.  
They are all plain to those who understand, and right to those who find knowledge.  
Receive my instruction, and not silver; and knowledge rather than choice gold.  
For wisdom is better than rubies; and all that may be desired cannot be compared to it.  
I, wisdom, dwell with prudence, and I discover knowledge of witty inventions.  
The fear of the LORD is to hate evil: pride, arrogance, the evil way, and the perverse mouth, I hate.  
Counsel is mine, and sound wisdom; I am understanding; I have strength.  
By me, kings reign, and princes decree justice.  
By me, princes rule, and nobles, even all the judges of the earth.  
I love those who love me; and those who seek me early will find me.  
Riches and honor are with me; yes, enduring riches and righteousness.  
My fruit is better than gold, yes, than fine gold; and my revenue is better than choice silver.  
I lead in the way of righteousness, in the midst of the paths of judgment:  
That I may cause those who love me to inherit substance; and I will fill their treasures.  
The LORD possessed me at the beginning of His way, before His works of old.  
I was established from everlasting, from the beginning, before the earth existed.  
When there were no depths, I was brought forth; when there were no fountains abounding with water.  
Before the mountains were settled, before the hills, I was brought forth:  
While He had not yet made the earth, nor the fields, nor the highest part of the dust of the world.  
When He prepared the heavens, I was there; when He set a compass upon the face of the deep:  
When He established the clouds above; when He strengthened the fountains of the deep:  
When He gave to the sea His decree, that the waters should not pass His commandment; when He appointed the foundations of the earth:  
Then I was beside Him, as one brought up with Him; and I was daily His delight, rejoicing always before Him;  
Rejoicing in the habitable part of His earth; and my delights were with the sons of men.  
Now therefore, listen to me, O children; for blessed are those who keep my ways.  
Hear instruction, and be wise, and do not refuse it.  
Blessed is the man who hears me, watching daily at my gates, waiting at the posts of my doors.  
For whoever finds me finds life, and shall obtain favor from the LORD.  
But he who sins against me wrongs his own soul; all those who hate me love death.