Now these are the last words of David. David the son of Jesse spoke, and the man who was raised up on high, the anointed of the God of Jacob, and the sweet psalmist of Israel, declared,
The Spirit of the LORD spoke by me, and His word was on my tongue.
The God of Israel said, the Rock of Israel spoke to me, He who rules over men must be just, ruling in the fear of God.
And he shall be like the light of the morning, when the sun rises, even a morning without clouds; like the tender grass springing out of the earth by clear shining after rain.
Although my house is not so with God; yet He has made with me an everlasting covenant, ordered in all things, and sure: for this is all my salvation, and all my desire, even if He does not cause it to grow.
But the sons of Belial shall all be like thorns thrust away, because they cannot be taken with hands:
But the man who touches them must be fenced with iron and the staff of a spear; and they shall be utterly burned with fire in the same place.
These are the names of the mighty men whom David had: The Tachmonite who sat in the seat, chief among the captains; he was Adino the Eznite: he lifted up his spear against eight hundred, whom he killed at one time.
And after him was Eleazar the son of Dodo the Ahohite, one of the three mighty men with David, when they defied the Philistines who were gathered together for battle, and the men of Israel had fled:
He arose, and struck the Philistines until his hand was weary, and his hand clung to the sword: and the LORD wrought a great victory that day; and the people returned after him only to take the spoil.
And after him was Shammah the son of Agee the Hararite. And the Philistines were gathered together into a troop, where there was a piece of ground full of lentils: and the people fled from the Philistines.
But he stood in the midst of the ground, defended it, and killed the Philistines: and the LORD wrought a great victory.
And three of the thirty chief went down, and came to David in the harvest time to the cave of Adullam: and the troop of the Philistines pitched in the valley of Rephaim.
And David was then in a stronghold, and the garrison of the Philistines was then in Bethlehem.
And David longed, and said, Oh that someone would give me a drink from the water of the well of Bethlehem, which is by the gate!
And the three mighty men broke through the host of the Philistines, drew water from the well of Bethlehem, that was by the gate, and brought it to David: nevertheless he would not drink it, but poured it out to the LORD.
And he said, Far be it from me, O LORD, that I should do this: is this not the blood of the men who went in jeopardy of their lives? therefore he would not drink it. These things did these three mighty men.
And Abishai, the brother of Joab, the son of Zeruiah, was chief among three. And he lifted up his spear against three hundred, and killed them, and had a name among the three.
Was he not the most honorable of the three? therefore he was their captain: however, he did not attain to the first three.
And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, the son of a valiant man, of Kabzeel, who had done many acts, he killed two lionlike men of Moab: he also went down and killed a lion in the midst of a pit in the time of snow:
And he killed an Egyptian, a goodly man: and the Egyptian had a spear in his hand; but he went down to him with a staff, plucked the spear out of the Egyptian's hand, and killed him with his own spear.
These things did Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and had a name among the three mighty men.
He was more honorable than the thirty, but he did not attain to the first three. And David set him over his guard.
Asahel the brother of Joab was one of the thirty; Elhanan the son of Dodo of Bethlehem,
Shammah the Harodite, Elika the Harodite,
Helez the Paltite, Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite,
Abiezer the Anethothite, Mebunnai the Hushathite,
Zalmon the Ahohite, Maharai the Netophathite,
Heleb the son of Baanah, a Netophathite, Ittai the son of Ribai from Gibeah of the children of Benjamin,
Benaiah the Pirathonite, Hiddai of the brooks of Gaash,
Abialbon the Arbathite, Azmaveth the Barhumite,
Eliahba the Shaalbonite, of the sons of Jashen, Jonathan,
Shammah the Hararite, Ahiam the son of Sharar the Hararite,
Eliphelet the son of Ahasbai, the son of the Maachathite, Eliam the son of Ahithophel the Gilonite,
Hezrai the Carmelite, Paarai the Arbite,
Igal the son of Nathan of Zobah, Bani the Gadite,
Zelek the Ammonite, Nahari the Beerothite, armor-bearer to Joab the son of Zeruiah,
Ira an Ithrite, Gareb an Ithrite,
Uriah the Hittite: thirty-seven in all.
