For this Melchisedec, king of Salem and priest of the Most High God, met Abraham as he returned from defeating the kings and blessed him.
To him, Abraham gave a tenth of everything; his name means "King of Righteousness," and he is also called "King of Salem," which means "King of Peace."
He is without father, without mother, without genealogy, having neither beginning of days nor end of life; he resembles the Son of God and remains a priest forever.
Now consider how great this man was; even the patriarch Abraham gave him a tenth of the spoils.
Indeed, those of the sons of Levi, who receive the priesthood, are commanded by the law to collect tithes from the people, that is, from their fellow Israelites, even though they are descendants of Abraham.
But Melchisedec, whose lineage is not traced from them, received tithes from Abraham and blessed him who had the promises.
And without a doubt, the lesser is blessed by the greater.
Here, mortal men receive tithes; but there, it is witnessed that he lives and receives them.
And so to speak, Levi, who receives tithes, paid tithes through Abraham.
For he was still in the body of his ancestor when Melchisedec met him.
If perfection could have been attained through the Levitical priesthood (for on the basis of it the law was given to the people), why was there still a need for another priest to come, one in the order of Melchisedec, not in the order of Aaron?
For when the priesthood is changed, the law must be changed as well.
He of whom these things are said belongs to a different tribe, and no one from that tribe has ever served at the altar.
It is clear that our Lord descended from Judah, and in regard to that tribe, Moses said nothing about priests.
And what we have said is even more clear if another priest like Melchisedec appears,
one who has become a priest not on the basis of a regulation as to his ancestry but on the basis of the power of an indestructible life.
For it is declared: "You are a priest forever, in the order of Melchisedec."
For there is a setting aside of the former commandment because of its weakness and uselessness.
For the law made nothing perfect, but a better hope is introduced, by which we draw near to God.
And it was not without an oath; others became priests without any oath,
but he became a priest with an oath when God said to him: "The Lord has sworn and will not change his mind: You are a priest forever."
Because of this oath, Jesus has become the guarantor of a better covenant.
There have been many of those priests, since death prevented them from continuing in office;
but because Jesus lives forever, he has a permanent priesthood.
Therefore, he is able to save completely those who come to God through him, because he always lives to intercede for them.
Such a high priest truly meets our need—one who is holy, blameless, pure, set apart from sinners, exalted above the heavens.
Unlike the other high priests, he does not need to offer sacrifices day after day, first for his own sins and then for the sins of the people; he sacrificed for their sins once for all when he offered himself.
For the law appoints as high priests men in all their weakness; but the oath, which came after the law, appointed the Son, who has been made perfect forever.
