After these events, the LORD appointed seventy others and sent them out two by two ahead of him into every city and place where he intended to go.
He then said to them, "The harvest is indeed plentiful, but the workers are few. Pray to the Lord of the harvest to send out workers into his harvest."
"Go your way; behold, I send you out as lambs among wolves."
"Do not carry a purse, a bag, or sandals; and greet no one along the way."
"When you enter a house, first say, 'Peace be to this house.'"
"If a person of peace is there, your peace will rest upon them; if not, it will return to you."
"Stay in the same house, eating and drinking what they provide, for the worker deserves their wages. Do not move from house to house."
"When you enter a city and they welcome you, eat what is set before you."
"Heal the sick who are there and tell them, 'The kingdom of God has come near to you.'"
"But if you enter a city and they do not welcome you, go out into its streets and say,"
"'Even the dust of your city that clings to us, we wipe off against you. Nevertheless, know this: the kingdom of God has come near.'"
"But I tell you, it will be more bearable on that day for Sodom than for that city."
"Woe to you, Chorazin! Woe to you, Bethsaida! For if the mighty works done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago, sitting in sackcloth and ashes."
"But it will be more bearable for Tyre and Sidon at the judgment than for you."
"And you, Capernaum, will you be exalted to heaven? You will be brought down to Hades."
"Whoever listens to you listens to me; whoever rejects you rejects me; and whoever rejects me rejects the one who sent me."
The seventy returned with joy, saying, "Lord, even the demons submit to us in your name."
He replied, "I saw Satan fall like lightning from heaven."
"Behold, I have given you authority to trample on snakes and scorpions, and to overcome all the power of the enemy; nothing will harm you."
"However, do not rejoice that the spirits submit to you, but rejoice that your names are written in heaven."
At that time, Jesus rejoiced in the Holy Spirit and said, "I praise you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because you have hidden these things from the wise and learned, and revealed them to little children. Yes, Father, for this is what you were pleased to do."
"All things have been committed to me by my Father. No one knows who the Son is except the Father, and no one knows who the Father is except the Son and those to whom the Son chooses to reveal him."
Then he turned to his disciples and said privately, "Blessed are the eyes that see what you see."
"For I tell you that many prophets and kings desired to see what you see, but did not see it, and to hear what you hear, but did not hear it."
Just then, a lawyer stood up to test him, saying, "Teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life?"
He asked him, "What is written in the law? How do you read it?"
He answered, "You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength, and with all your mind; and your neighbor as yourself."
Jesus replied, "You have answered correctly; do this and you will live."
But he, wanting to justify himself, asked Jesus, "And who is my neighbor?"
In reply, Jesus said, "A man was going down from Jerusalem to Jericho when he was attacked by robbers. They stripped him of his clothes, beat him and went away, leaving him half dead."
A priest happened to be going down the same road, and when he saw the man, he passed by on the other side.
So too, a Levite, when he came to the place and saw him, passed by on the other side.
But a Samaritan, as he traveled, came where the man was; and when he saw him, he took pity on him.
He went to him and bandaged his wounds, pouring on oil and wine. Then he put the man on his own donkey, took him to an inn, and took care of him.
The next day he took out two denarii and gave them to the innkeeper. "Look after him," he said, "and when I return, I will reimburse you for any extra expense you may have."
"Which of these three do you think was a neighbor to the man who fell into the hands of robbers?"
The expert in the law replied, "The one who had mercy on him." Jesus told him, "Go and do likewise."
As Jesus and his disciples were on their way, he came to a village where a woman named Martha opened her home to him.
She had a sister called Mary, who sat at the Lord's feet listening to what he said.
But Martha was distracted by all the preparations that had to be made. She came to him and asked, "Lord, don't you care that my sister has left me to do the work by myself? Tell her to help me!"
"Martha, Martha," the Lord answered, "you are worried and upset about many things,
but few things are needed—or indeed only one. Mary has chosen what is better, and it will not be taken away from her."
