When the LORD your God brings you into the land you are about to possess, and has driven out many nations before you—the Hittites, the Girgashites, the Amorites, the Canaanites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites, seven nations greater and mightier than you—  
And when the LORD your God delivers them into your hands, you shall defeat them and completely destroy them; you shall make no covenant with them, nor show mercy to them.  
You shall not intermarry with them; you shall not give your daughter to his son, nor take his daughter for your son.  
For they will turn your son away from following me to serve other gods; then the anger of the LORD will be kindled against you, and He will destroy you suddenly.  
But this is how you shall deal with them: you shall destroy their altars, break down their images, cut down their groves, and burn their carved images with fire.  
For you are a holy people to the LORD your God; the LORD your God has chosen you to be a special people for Himself, above all the peoples on the face of the earth.  
The LORD did not set His love upon you or choose you because you were more numerous than any other people; for you were the fewest of all peoples.  
But because the LORD loved you and would keep the oath He swore to your fathers, He brought you out with a mighty hand and redeemed you from the house of bondage, from the hand of Pharaoh king of Egypt.  
Know therefore that the LORD your God, He is God, the faithful God, who keeps covenant and mercy with those who love Him and keep His commandments to a thousand generations;  
And He repays those who hate Him to their face, to destroy them; He will not be slack with him who hates Him; He will repay him to his face.  
Therefore, you shall keep the commandments, the statutes, and the judgments that I command you today, to observe them.  
It shall come to pass, if you heed these judgments and keep and do them, that the LORD your God will keep with you the covenant and the mercy which He swore to your fathers.  
He will love you, bless you, and multiply you; He will also bless the fruit of your womb, the fruit of your land, your grain, your wine, and your oil, the increase of your cattle, and the flocks of your sheep, in the land which He swore to your fathers to give you.  
You shall be blessed above all peoples; there shall not be a male or female barren among you, or among your livestock.  
And the LORD will take away from you all sickness and will put none of the evil diseases of Egypt, which you know, upon you; but He will lay them on all who hate you.  
And you shall consume all the peoples whom the LORD your God delivers to you; your eye shall have no pity on them, nor shall you serve their gods, for that will be a snare to you.  
If you say in your heart, "These nations are greater than I; how can I dispossess them?"  
You shall not be afraid of them, but you shall remember well what the LORD your God did to Pharaoh and to all Egypt.  
The great trials which your eyes saw, the signs and wonders, the mighty hand and the outstretched arm, by which the LORD your God brought you out: so shall the LORD your God do to all the peoples of whom you are afraid.  
Moreover, the LORD your God will send the hornet among them until those who are left and hide themselves from you are destroyed.  
You shall not be terrified of them, for the LORD your God is among you, a mighty God and awesome.  
And the LORD your God will drive out those nations before you little by little; you may not consume them all at once, lest the beasts of the field become too numerous for you.  
But the LORD your God shall deliver them to you, and will inflict upon them a mighty destruction until they are destroyed.  
And He shall deliver their kings into your hand, and you shall destroy their name from under heaven; no man shall be able to stand before you until you have destroyed them.  
You shall burn the carved images of their gods with fire; you shall not covet the silver or gold that is on them, nor take it for yourselves, lest you be ensnared by it; for it is an abomination to the LORD your God.  
You shall not bring an abomination into your house, lest you be doomed to destruction like it; but you shall utterly detest it and abhor it, for it is a cursed thing.