The wicked flee when no one pursues them, but the righteous are as bold as lions.  
For the transgression of a land, there are many princes; but a man of understanding and knowledge will prolong its state.  
A poor man who oppresses the poor is like a sweeping rain that leaves no food.  
Those who forsake the law praise the wicked, but those who keep the law contend with them.  
Evil men do not understand judgment, but those who seek the LORD understand all things.  
Better is a poor man who walks in his uprightness than a rich man who is perverse in his ways.  
Whoever keeps the law is a wise son, but a companion of riotous men brings shame to his father.  
He who increases his wealth through usury and unjust gain will gather it for someone who will pity the poor.  
He who turns away his ear from hearing the law, even his prayer will be an abomination.  
Whoever causes the righteous to go astray in an evil way will fall into his own pit, but the upright will possess good things.  
The rich man is wise in his own eyes, but the poor man with understanding searches him out.  
When righteous men rejoice, there is great glory; but when the wicked rise, a man hides himself.  
He who covers his sins will not prosper, but whoever confesses and forsakes them will find mercy.  
Happy is the man who fears always, but he who hardens his heart will fall into mischief.  
Like a roaring lion and a ranging bear, so is a wicked ruler over poor people.  
The prince who lacks understanding is a great oppressor, but he who hates covetousness will prolong his days.  
A man who commits violence against any person will flee to the pit; let no one stop him.  
Whoever walks uprightly will be saved, but the perverse in their ways will fall suddenly.  
He who tills his land will have plenty of bread, but he who follows after vain persons will experience poverty.  
A faithful man will abound with blessings, but he who hastens to be rich will not go unpunished.  
To show partiality is not good; for a piece of bread, a man will transgress.  
He who hastens to be rich has an evil eye and does not consider that poverty will come upon him.  
He who rebukes a man will find more favor than he who flatters with the tongue.  
Whoever robs his father or mother and says, "It is no transgression," is the companion of a destroyer.  
He who has a proud heart stirs up strife, but he who trusts in the LORD will be enriched.  
He who trusts in his own heart is a fool, but whoever walks wisely will be delivered.  
He who gives to the poor will not lack, but he who hides his eyes will receive many curses.  
When the wicked rise, men hide themselves, but when they perish, the righteous increase.