It came to pass after this that Nahash, the king of the Ammonites, died, and his son succeeded him.
David said, "I will show kindness to Hanun, the son of Nahash, because his father showed kindness to me." David sent messengers to comfort him regarding his father. Thus, David's servants entered the land of the Ammonites to console Hanun.
However, the princes of the Ammonites said to Hanun, "Do you think David honors your father by sending comforters to you? Are not his servants here to investigate, overthrow, and spy on the land?"
Consequently, Hanun took David's servants, shaved them, cut off their garments up to their buttocks, and sent them away.
Then some went and informed David of how the men had been treated. He sent to meet them, for the men were greatly ashamed. The king said, "Stay in Jericho until your beards have grown back, and then return."
When the Ammonites realized they had made themselves odious to David, Hanun and the Ammonites sent a thousand talents of silver to hire chariots and horsemen from Mesopotamia, from Maachah, and from Zobah.
They hired thirty-two thousand chariots, along with the king of Maachah and his people, who came and camped before Medeba. The Ammonites gathered from their cities and prepared for battle.
Upon hearing this, David sent Joab and all the mighty men of valor.
The Ammonites came out and arranged their forces at the city gate, while the kings who had come were in the field by themselves.
When Joab saw that the battle was set against him from both the front and the rear, he selected the best of Israel and arranged them against the Syrians.
The rest of the people he placed under the command of his brother Abishai, and they arranged themselves against the Ammonites.
He said, "If the Syrians are too strong for me, you shall help me; but if the Ammonites are too strong for you, I will help you.
Be courageous, and let us act valiantly for our people and for the cities of our God; and may the LORD do what is good in His sight."
So Joab and the men with him advanced toward the Syrians in battle, and they fled before him.
When the Ammonites saw that the Syrians had fled, they also fled before Abishai, and entered the city. Then Joab returned to Jerusalem.
When the Syrians realized they were being defeated by Israel, they sent messengers and brought in reinforcements from beyond the river, with Shophach, the commander of Hadarezer's army, leading them.
David was informed, and he gathered all Israel, crossed the Jordan, and confronted them, arranging the battle against them. When David had set the battle in array against the Syrians, they fought with him.
But the Syrians fled before Israel; David killed seven thousand of their charioteers and forty thousand foot soldiers, and he also killed Shophach, the commander of the army.
When the servants of Hadarezer saw that they were being defeated by Israel, they made peace with David and became his servants; the Syrians no longer assisted the Ammonites.
