At the same time, the disciples came to Jesus, asking, "Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven?"
And Jesus called a little child to him and placed him in their midst,
And said, "Truly I tell you, unless you are converted and become like little children, you will not enter the kingdom of heaven.
Therefore, whoever humbles himself like this little child is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven.
And whoever receives one such little child in my name receives me.
But whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to stumble, it would be better for him to have a millstone hung around his neck and to be drowned in the depths of the sea.
Woe to the world because of offenses! For it is necessary that offenses come; but woe to the man through whom the offense comes!
If your hand or foot causes you to stumble, cut it off and throw it away; it is better for you to enter life crippled or lame than to have two hands or two feet and be thrown into eternal fire.
And if your eye causes you to stumble, pluck it out and throw it away; it is better for you to enter life with one eye than to have two eyes and be thrown into hellfire.
Take heed that you do not despise one of these little ones; for I tell you that in heaven their angels always behold the face of my Father who is in heaven.
For the Son of Man has come to save that which was lost.
What do you think? If a man has a hundred sheep, and one of them goes astray, does he not leave the ninety-nine and go to the mountains to seek the one that is lost?
And if he finds it, truly I tell you, he rejoices more over that sheep than over the ninety-nine that did not go astray.
In the same way, it is not the will of your Father who is in heaven that one of these little ones should perish.
Moreover, if your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault between you and him alone; if he hears you, you have gained your brother.
But if he will not listen, take one or two others along with you, so that every word may be established by the mouth of two or three witnesses.
And if he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the church; and if he refuses to listen even to the church, let him be to you as a Gentile and a tax collector.
Truly I tell you, whatever you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven.
Again, I tell you that if two of you agree on earth about anything they ask, it will be done for them by my Father in heaven.
For where two or three are gathered in my name, there I am among them.
Then Peter came to him and said, "Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? Up to seven times?"
Jesus said to him, "I do not say to you, up to seven times, but up to seventy times seven."
Therefore, the kingdom of heaven is like a certain king who wanted to settle accounts with his servants.
As he began to settle, one was brought to him who owed him ten thousand talents.
But since he could not pay, his master commanded that he be sold, along with his wife, children, and all that he had, and payment be made.
The servant fell down before him, saying, "Master, have patience with me, and I will pay you all."
Then the master of that servant was moved with compassion, released him, and forgave him the debt.
But that same servant went out and found one of his fellow servants who owed him a hundred denarii; and he laid hands on him and took him by the throat, saying, "Pay me what you owe!"
So his fellow servant fell down at his feet and begged him, saying, "Have patience with me, and I will pay you all."
But he would not; instead, he went and threw him into prison until he should pay the debt.
When his fellow servants saw what had been done, they were very upset and went and told their master all that had happened.
Then his master, after he had called him, said to him, "You wicked servant! I forgave you all that debt because you begged me.
Should you not also have had compassion on your fellow servant, just as I had pity on you?"
And his master was angry and delivered him to the torturers until he should pay all that was due to him.
So likewise will my heavenly Father do to you if each of you from his heart does not forgive his brother his trespasses.
