Let brotherly love continue.  
Do not forget to entertain strangers, for some have entertained angels without realizing it.  
Remember those who are in bonds, as if you were bound with them; and those who suffer adversity, as if you were also in the body.  
Marriage is honorable in all, and the marriage bed is undefiled; but God will judge whoremongers and adulterers.  
Let your conversation be free from covetousness, and be content with what you have; for He has said, "I will never leave you nor forsake you."  
So we may boldly say, "The Lord is my helper; I will not fear what man can do to me."  
Remember those who rule over you, who have spoken the word of God to you; follow their faith, considering the outcome of their conduct.  
Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever.  
Do not be carried away by diverse and strange doctrines. It is good for the heart to be established by grace, not by foods, which have not benefited those who are occupied with them.  
We have an altar from which those who serve the tabernacle have no right to eat.  
For the bodies of those animals, whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high priest for sin, are burned outside the camp.  
Therefore, Jesus also, that He might sanctify the people with His own blood, suffered outside the gate.  
Let us go forth to Him outside the camp, bearing His reproach.  
For here we have no continuing city, but we seek the one to come.  
Through Him, let us continually offer the sacrifice of praise to God, that is, the fruit of our lips giving thanks to His name.  
But do not forget to do good and to share, for with such sacrifices God is well pleased.  
Obey those who rule over you and submit yourselves, for they watch for your souls, as those who must give account, that they may do it with joy and not with grief, for that would be unprofitable for you.  
Pray for us, for we trust that we have a good conscience, in all things desiring to live honorably.  
But I especially urge you to do this, that I may be restored to you sooner.  
Now may the God of peace, who brought up our Lord Jesus from the dead, that great Shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of the everlasting covenant,  
Make you complete in every good work to do His will, working in you what is pleasing in His sight, through Jesus Christ, to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen.  
And I urge you, brethren, to bear with the word of exhortation, for I have written to you briefly.  
Know that our brother Timothy has been set free; with whom, if he comes shortly, I will see you.  
Greet all those who rule over you and all the saints. Those from Italy greet you.  
Grace be with you all. Amen.