And one of the seven angels who had the seven vials approached me, saying, "Come here; I will show you the judgment of the great whore who sits upon many waters.  
With whom the kings of the earth have committed fornication, and the inhabitants of the earth have been made drunk with the wine of her fornication.  
So he carried me away in the spirit into the wilderness, and I saw a woman sitting on a scarlet-colored beast, full of names of blasphemy, having seven heads and ten horns.  
The woman was dressed in purple and scarlet, adorned with gold, precious stones, and pearls, holding a golden cup in her hand filled with abominations and the filthiness of her fornication.  
And on her forehead was a name written: MYSTERY, BABYLON THE GREAT, THE MOTHER OF HARLOTS AND ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH.  
I saw the woman drunk with the blood of the saints and the blood of the martyrs of Jesus; and when I saw her, I marveled greatly.  
The angel said to me, "Why do you marvel? I will explain to you the mystery of the woman and of the beast that carries her, which has the seven heads and ten horns.  
The beast that you saw was, and is not, and will ascend out of the bottomless pit and go into perdition; and those who dwell on the earth will marvel, whose names were not written in the book of life from the foundation of the world, when they see the beast that was, and is not, and yet is.  
Here is the mind that has wisdom: The seven heads are seven mountains on which the woman sits.  
And there are seven kings: five have fallen, one is, and the other has not yet come; and when he comes, he must continue for a short time.  
The beast that was, and is not, is himself the eighth, and is of the seven, and goes into perdition.  
The ten horns that you saw are ten kings who have not yet received a kingdom; but they will receive authority as kings for one hour with the beast.  
These have one mind, and they will give their power and strength to the beast.  
They will make war with the Lamb, and the Lamb will overcome them, for He is Lord of lords and King of kings; and those who are with Him are called, chosen, and faithful.  
He said to me, "The waters that you saw, where the whore sits, are peoples, multitudes, nations, and tongues.  
The ten horns that you saw on the beast will hate the whore, make her desolate and naked, eat her flesh, and burn her with fire.  
For God has put it into their hearts to fulfill His will, to agree, and to give their kingdom to the beast, until the words of God are fulfilled.  
And the woman that you saw is that great city which reigns over the kings of the earth."