Now Moses tended the flock of Jethro, his father-in-law, the priest of Midian. He led the flock to the far side of the desert and came to the mountain of God, known as Horeb.  
The angel of the LORD appeared to him in a flame of fire from the midst of a bush. He looked, and behold, the bush was burning with fire, yet the bush was not consumed.  
Moses said, "I will turn aside now and see this great sight, why the bush is not burned."  
When the LORD saw that he turned aside to see, God called to him from the midst of the bush and said, "Moses, Moses." He replied, "Here I am."  
God said, "Do not come any closer. Remove your sandals from your feet, for the place where you are standing is holy ground."  
Furthermore, He said, "I am the God of your father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob." Moses hid his face, for he was afraid to look at God.  
The LORD said, "I have surely seen the affliction of my people who are in Egypt, and I have heard their cry because of their taskmasters; I know their sorrows.  
I have come down to deliver them from the hand of the Egyptians and to bring them up from that land to a good and spacious land, a land flowing with milk and honey; to the place of the Canaanites, Hittites, Amorites, Perizzites, Hivites, and Jebusites.  
Now, behold, the cry of the children of Israel has come to me, and I have also seen the oppression with which the Egyptians oppress them.  
Therefore, come now, and I will send you to Pharaoh, that you may bring my people, the children of Israel, out of Egypt."  
Moses said to God, "Who am I that I should go to Pharaoh and bring the children of Israel out of Egypt?"  
God replied, "Certainly I will be with you; and this shall be a sign to you that I have sent you: When you have brought the people out of Egypt, you shall serve God on this mountain."  
Moses said to God, "Behold, when I come to the children of Israel and say to them, 'The God of your fathers has sent me to you,' and they ask me, 'What is his name?' what shall I say to them?"  
God said to Moses, "I AM WHO I AM." He said, "Thus you shall say to the children of Israel, 'I AM has sent me to you.'"  
God also said to Moses, "Thus you shall say to the children of Israel, 'The LORD God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has sent me to you. This is my name forever, and this is my memorial to all generations.'"  
"Go, gather the elders of Israel together, and say to them, 'The LORD God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, appeared to me, saying, "I have surely visited you and seen what is done to you in Egypt.  
I have said, 'I will bring you up out of the affliction of Egypt to the land of the Canaanites, Hittites, Amorites, Perizzites, Hivites, and Jebusites, to a land flowing with milk and honey.'"  
They will listen to your voice, and you and the elders of Israel shall go to the king of Egypt and say to him, 'The LORD God of the Hebrews has met with us. Now let us go, we pray, three days' journey into the wilderness, that we may sacrifice to the LORD our God.'  
I am sure that the king of Egypt will not let you go, not even by a mighty hand.  
I will stretch out my hand and strike Egypt with all my wonders that I will perform in it; after that, he will let you go.  
I will give this people favor in the sight of the Egyptians, and it shall be that when you go, you shall not go empty-handed.  
But every woman shall ask of her neighbor and of her who lives in her house for articles of silver, articles of gold, and clothing; and you shall put them on your sons and daughters, and you shall plunder the Egyptians."