Now regarding the collection for the saints, as I have instructed the churches of Galatia, so you should do as well.  
On the first day of the week, let each of you set aside a sum of money in keeping with your income, so that when I arrive, there will be no need for collections.  
When I come, I will send those whom you approve by your letters to take your generous gift to Jerusalem.  
And if it is appropriate for me to go as well, they will accompany me.  
I will visit you after I pass through Macedonia, for I am planning to pass through Macedonia.  
Perhaps I will stay with you for a while, even through the winter, so that you can help me on my journey wherever I go.  
I do not plan to see you now on my way, but I hope to stay a while with you, if the Lord allows.  
However, I will remain in Ephesus until Pentecost.  
A great and effective door has opened for me, and there are many adversaries.  
If Timothy comes, see to it that he has nothing to fear while he is with you, for he is carrying out the work of the Lord, just as I am.  
So let no one despise him; send him on his way in peace, so that he may return to me, for I am expecting him with the brothers.  
Regarding our brother Apollos, I greatly urged him to visit you with the brothers, but it was not his intention to come at this time; he will come when he has the opportunity.  
Be on guard, stand firm in the faith, be courageous, be strong.  
Let everything you do be done in love.  
I urge you, brothers, (you know that the household of Stephanas is the firstfruits of Achaia, and they have devoted themselves to the service of the saints,)  
that you submit to such people and to everyone who works and labors with us.  
I am delighted by the arrival of Stephanas, Fortunatus, and Achaicus, for they have supplied what was lacking from you.  
For they have refreshed my spirit and yours; therefore, recognize such people.  
The churches of Asia send you greetings. Aquila and Priscilla send you warm greetings in the Lord, along with the church that meets in their home.  
All the brothers send their greetings. Greet one another with a holy kiss.  
This is my greeting, Paul, written with my own hand.  
If anyone does not love the Lord Jesus Christ, let that person be accursed. Come, Lord!  
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.  
My love be with all of you in Christ Jesus. Amen.