And Joshua, the son of Nun, sent two men from Shittim to spy secretly, instructing them to go and view the land, particularly Jericho. They went and entered the house of a harlot named Rahab, where they lodged.
It was reported to the king of Jericho that men had come to the city that night from the children of Israel to scout the land.
The king of Jericho sent a message to Rahab, demanding that she bring out the men who had entered her house, as they had come to search the land.
The woman took the two men and hid them, saying, "Yes, men came to me, but I did not know where they were from."
It happened that at the time the gate was about to close, and it was dark, the men left. I do not know where they went; pursue them quickly, and you will catch up with them.
However, she had taken them up to the roof of her house and hidden them among the stalks of flax that she had laid out on the roof.
The men pursued them along the road to the Jordan, and as soon as those pursuing them had left, the gate was shut.
Before the men lay down to rest, she came up to them on the roof.
She said to the men, "I know that the LORD has given you this land, and that a great fear has fallen upon us, and all the inhabitants of the land are melting in fear because of you."
We have heard how the LORD dried up the waters of the Red Sea for you when you came out of Egypt, and what you did to the two kings of the Amorites, who were on the other side of the Jordan, Sihon and Og, whom you completely destroyed.
As soon as we heard these things, our hearts melted, and there was no courage left in any man because of you; for the LORD your God is God in heaven above and on the earth below.
Now, therefore, I ask you to swear to me by the LORD, since I have shown you kindness, that you will also show kindness to my father's house and give me a true sign.
And that you will spare my father, my mother, my brothers, my sisters, and all their possessions, and deliver our lives from death.
The men answered her, "Our lives for yours, if you do not disclose this business of ours. When the LORD gives us the land, we will deal kindly and faithfully with you."
Then she let them down by a cord through the window, for her house was on the city wall, and she lived on the wall.
She instructed them, "Go to the mountains, lest the pursuers find you; hide there for three days until the pursuers return, and then you may go on your way."
The men said to her, "We will be free from this oath you have made us swear."
"Behold," she said, "when we come into the land, you shall tie this scarlet cord in the window through which you let us down, and bring your father, your mother, your brothers, and all your father's household into your home."
It shall be that whoever goes out of the doors of your house into the street, his blood will be on his own head, and we will be innocent; but whoever is with you in the house, his blood will be on our head if any harm comes to him.
If you disclose our business, we will be free from the oath you made us swear."
She replied, "According to your words, so be it." She sent them away, and they departed; then she tied the scarlet cord in the window.
They went and stayed in the mountains for three days until the pursuers returned. The pursuers searched all along the way but did not find them.
The two men returned, descended from the mountain, crossed over, and came to Joshua, the son of Nun, and told him everything that had happened to them.
They said to Joshua, "Truly, the LORD has delivered all the land into our hands; indeed, all the inhabitants of the country are melting in fear because of us."
