Against Moab, thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Woe to Nebo! For it is ruined; Kiriathaim is confounded and captured; Misgab is confounded and dismayed.
There shall be no more praise for Moab; in Heshbon, they have devised evil against it; come, let us cut it off from being a nation. You too shall be cut down, O Madmen; the sword shall pursue you.
A voice of lamentation shall be heard from Horonaim, with great destruction.
Moab is destroyed; her little ones have raised a cry.
For as Luhith ascends, continual weeping shall rise; and as Horonaim descends, the enemies have heard a cry of destruction.
Flee, save your lives, and be like the heath in the wilderness.
Because you have trusted in your works and in your treasures, you shall also be taken; Chemosh shall go into captivity with his priests and princes together.
The spoiler shall come upon every city, and no city shall escape; the valley shall perish, and the plain shall be destroyed, as the LORD has spoken.
Give wings to Moab, that it may flee and escape; for its cities shall be desolate, with no one to dwell in them.
Cursed be he who does the work of the LORD deceitfully, and cursed be he who keeps back his sword from blood.
Moab has been at ease from his youth; he has settled on his dregs and has not been emptied from vessel to vessel, nor has he gone into captivity; therefore, his taste remains in him, and his scent is unchanged.
Therefore, behold, the days are coming, says the LORD, when I will send wanderers to him, who shall cause him to wander and empty his vessels, breaking their bottles.
And Moab shall be ashamed of Chemosh, as the house of Israel was ashamed of Bethel, their confidence.
How do you say, "We are mighty and strong men for the war"?
Moab is ruined and has gone out of her cities; her chosen young men have gone down to the slaughter, says the King, whose name is the LORD of hosts.
The calamity of Moab is near, and his affliction hastens fast.
All you who are around him, bemoan him; and all you who know his name, say, "How is the strong staff broken, and the beautiful rod!"
O daughter who dwells in Dibon, come down from your glory and sit in thirst; for the spoiler of Moab shall come upon you, and he shall destroy your strongholds.
O inhabitant of Aroer, stand by the way and watch; ask him who flees and her who escapes, and say, "What has happened?"
Moab is confounded; for it is broken down: howl and cry; declare it in Arnon, that Moab is spoiled.
And judgment has come upon the plain country; upon Holon, upon Jahazah, and upon Mephaath,
And upon Dibon, upon Nebo, and upon Bethdiblathaim,
And upon Kiriathaim, upon Bethgamul, and upon Bethmeon,
And upon Kerioth, upon Bozrah, and upon all the cities of the land of Moab, far and near.
The horn of Moab is cut off, and his arm is broken, says the LORD.
Make him drunk, for he has magnified himself against the LORD; Moab shall wallow in his vomit, and he shall be in derision.
For was not Israel a derision to you? Was he found among thieves? For since you spoke of him, you rejoiced.
O you who dwell in Moab, leave the cities and dwell in the rocks; be like the dove that makes her nest in the sides of the hole's mouth.
We have heard of the pride of Moab, (he is exceedingly proud) his loftiness, and his arrogance, and the haughtiness of his heart.
I know his wrath, says the LORD; but it shall not be so; his lies shall not have that effect.
Therefore, I will howl for Moab, and I will cry out for all Moab; my heart shall mourn for the men of Kirheres.
O vine of Sibmah, I will weep for you with the weeping of Jazer; your plants have gone over the sea, they reach even to the sea of Jazer; the spoiler has fallen upon your summer fruits and upon your vintage.
And joy and gladness are taken from the plentiful field and from the land of Moab; I have caused wine to fail from the winepresses; none shall tread with shouting; their shouting shall be no shouting.
From the cry of Heshbon even to Elealeh, and even to Jahaz, they have uttered their voice; from Zoar even to Horonaim, like a heifer of three years old; for the waters of Nimrim shall be desolate.
Moreover, I will cause to cease in Moab, says the LORD, him who offers in the high places and him who burns incense to his gods.
Therefore, my heart shall sound for Moab like pipes, and my heart shall sound like pipes for the men of Kirheres; because the riches he has gained are perished.
For every head shall be bald, and every beard clipped; upon all the hands shall be cuttings, and upon the loins sackcloth.
There shall be lamentation generally upon all the rooftops of Moab and in its streets; for I have broken Moab like a vessel in which there is no pleasure, says the LORD.
They shall howl, saying, "How is it broken down! How has Moab turned back with shame!" So shall Moab be a derision and a source of dismay to all those around him.
For thus says the LORD: Behold, he shall fly as an eagle and shall spread his wings over Moab.
Kerioth is taken, and the strongholds are surprised; the hearts of the mighty men in Moab that day shall be like the heart of a woman in labor.
And Moab shall be destroyed from being a people, because he has magnified himself against the LORD.
Fear, and the pit, and the snare shall be upon you, O inhabitant of Moab, says the LORD.
He who flees from fear shall fall into the pit; and he who gets up out of the pit shall be taken in the snare; for I will bring upon it, even upon Moab, the year of their visitation, says the LORD.
Those who fled stood under the shadow of Heshbon because of the force; but a fire shall come forth from Heshbon, and a flame from the midst of Sihon, and shall devour the corner of Moab and the crown of the head of the tumultuous ones.
Woe to you, O Moab! The people of Chemosh perish; for your sons are taken captive, and your daughters captives.
Yet I will bring back the captivity of Moab in the latter days, says the LORD. Thus far is the judgment of Moab.
