Thus has the Lord GOD shown me; and behold, He formed grasshoppers at the beginning of the latter growth; and lo, it was the latter growth after the king's harvest.

And it came to pass that when they had finished eating the grass of the land, I said, O Lord GOD, forgive, I beseech You: by whom shall Jacob rise? For he is small.

The LORD relented concerning this: It shall not be, says the LORD.

Thus has the Lord GOD shown me: and behold, the Lord GOD called to contend by fire, and it consumed the great deep, and devoured a part.

Then I said, O Lord GOD, cease, I beseech You: by whom shall Jacob rise? For he is small.

The LORD relented concerning this: This also shall not be, says the Lord GOD.

Thus He showed me: and behold, the LORD stood upon a wall made with a plumb line, with a plumb line in His hand.

And the LORD said to me, Amos, what do you see? And I said, A plumb line. Then the LORD said, Behold, I will set a plumb line in the midst of My people Israel: I will not pass by them again.

And the high places of Isaac shall be desolate, and the sanctuaries of Israel shall be laid waste; and I will rise against the house of Jeroboam with the sword.

Then Amaziah, the priest of Bethel, sent to Jeroboam king of Israel, saying, Amos has conspired against you in the midst of the house of Israel: the land is not able to bear all his words.

For thus Amos says, Jeroboam shall die by the sword, and Israel shall surely be led away captive from their own land.

Also, Amaziah said to Amos, O you seer, go, flee to the land of Judah, and there eat bread, and prophesy there.

But prophesy no more at Bethel: for it is the king's sanctuary, and it is the king's court.

Then Amos answered and said to Amaziah, I was no prophet, nor was I a prophet's son; but I was a shepherd, and a gatherer of sycamore fruit.

And the LORD took me as I followed the flock, and the LORD said to me, Go, prophesy to My people Israel.

Now therefore hear the word of the LORD: You say, Prophesy not against Israel, and do not drop Your word against the house of Isaac.

Therefore thus says the LORD: Your wife shall be a harlot in the city, and your sons and your daughters shall fall by the sword, and your land shall be divided by line; and you shall die in a polluted land: and Israel shall surely go into captivity from his land.