My son, if you become surety for your friend, if you have struck your hand with a stranger,  
You are ensnared by the words of your mouth; you are taken by the words of your mouth.  
Do this now, my son, and free yourself; when you have come into the power of your friend, go, humble yourself, and ensure your friend.  
Do not give sleep to your eyes, nor slumber to your eyelids.  
Free yourself like a deer from the hand of the hunter, and like a bird from the hand of the fowler.  
Go to the ant, you sluggard; consider her ways and be wise:  
Though she has no guide, overseer, or ruler,  
She provides her food in the summer and gathers her sustenance in the harvest.  
How long will you sleep, O sluggard? When will you arise from your sleep?  
A little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to rest:  
So shall your poverty come as a traveler, and your need like an armed man.  
A wicked person, a deceitful man, walks with a perverse mouth.  
He winks with his eyes, speaks with his feet, and teaches with his fingers;  
Perversity is in his heart; he devises mischief continually and sows discord.  
Therefore, his calamity will come suddenly; he will be broken without remedy.  
These six things the LORD hates; yes, seven are an abomination to Him:  
A proud look, a lying tongue, and hands that shed innocent blood,  
A heart that devises wicked imaginations, feet that are swift in running to mischief,  
A false witness who speaks lies, and one who sows discord among brethren.  
My son, keep your father's commandment and do not forsake the law of your mother:  
Bind them continually upon your heart and tie them around your neck.  
When you go, they will lead you; when you sleep, they will keep you; and when you awake, they will speak with you.  
For the commandment is a lamp, and the law is light; and reproofs of instruction are the way of life:  
To keep you from the evil woman, from the flattering tongue of a strange woman.  
Do not lust after her beauty in your heart; neither let her captivate you with her eyelids.  
For by means of a promiscuous woman, a man is brought to a piece of bread; and the adulteress hunts for the precious life.  
Can a man take fire in his bosom and his clothes not be burned?  
Can one walk on hot coals and his feet not be scorched?  
So he who goes in to his neighbor's wife; whoever touches her will not be innocent.  
Men do not despise a thief if he steals to satisfy his soul when he is hungry;  
But if he is found, he shall restore sevenfold; he shall give all the substance of his house.  
But whoever commits adultery with a woman lacks understanding; he who does it destroys his own soul.  
A wound and dishonor he will receive, and his reproach will not be wiped away.  
For jealousy is the rage of a man; therefore, he will not spare in the day of vengeance.  
He will not accept any ransom, nor will he be content, though you give many gifts.