Then the word of the LORD came to Jehu, the son of Hanani, against Baasha, saying,
"Since I exalted you from the dust and made you prince over my people Israel, you have walked in the ways of Jeroboam and caused my people Israel to sin, provoking me to anger with their sins.
Behold, I will remove the descendants of Baasha and his household; I will make your house like the house of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat.
Those who die of Baasha in the city will be eaten by dogs, and those who die in the fields will be eaten by the birds of the air.
Now the rest of the acts of Baasha, along with what he did and his might, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
So Baasha rested with his ancestors and was buried in Tirzah; his son Elah reigned in his place.
And the word of the LORD came through the prophet Jehu, the son of Hanani, against Baasha and his house, for all the evil he did in the sight of the LORD, provoking him to anger with the work of his hands, and for being like the house of Jeroboam, because he killed him.
In the twenty-sixth year of Asa, king of Judah, Elah, the son of Baasha, began to reign over Israel in Tirzah, for two years.
His servant Zimri, captain of half his chariots, conspired against him while he was in Tirzah, drinking himself drunk in the house of Arza, steward of his house in Tirzah.
Zimri went in, struck him, and killed him in the twenty-seventh year of Asa, king of Judah, and reigned in his place.
When he began to reign, as soon as he sat on his throne, he killed all the house of Baasha; he left no male descendant, neither of his relatives nor of his friends.
Thus, Zimri destroyed all the house of Baasha, according to the word of the LORD, which he spoke against Baasha through Jehu the prophet.
For all the sins of Baasha and the sins of his son Elah, by which they sinned and caused Israel to sin, provoking the LORD God of Israel to anger with their vanities.
Now the rest of the acts of Elah and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
In the twenty-seventh year of Asa, king of Judah, Zimri reigned for seven days in Tirzah. The people were encamped against Gibbethon, which belonged to the Philistines.
The people encamped heard it said, "Zimri has conspired and also slain the king." Therefore, all Israel made Omri, the captain of the host, king over Israel that day in the camp.
Omri went up from Gibbethon, and all Israel with him, and they besieged Tirzah.
When Zimri saw that the city was taken, he went into the palace of the king's house, burned the king's house over him with fire, and died.
This was for his sins, which he committed in doing evil in the sight of the LORD, walking in the way of Jeroboam, and in his sin that he committed to make Israel sin.
Now the rest of the acts of Zimri and his treason that he committed, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
Then the people of Israel were divided into two parts: half of the people followed Tibni, the son of Ginath, to make him king, and half followed Omri.
But the people who followed Omri prevailed against those who followed Tibni, the son of Ginath; so Tibni died, and Omri reigned.
In the thirty-first year of Asa, king of Judah, Omri began to reign over Israel for twelve years; he reigned six years in Tirzah.
He bought the hill Samaria from Shemer for two talents of silver, built on the hill, and named the city he built after Shemer, the owner of the hill, Samaria.
But Omri did evil in the eyes of the LORD and did worse than all who were before him.
For he walked in all the ways of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, and in his sin, which he committed to make Israel sin, provoking the LORD God of Israel to anger with their vanities.
Now the rest of the acts of Omri, which he did, and his might that he showed, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
So Omri rested with his ancestors and was buried in Samaria; his son Ahab reigned in his place.
In the thirty-eighth year of Asa, king of Judah, Ahab, the son of Omri, began to reign over Israel; Ahab reigned over Israel in Samaria for twenty-two years.
Ahab, the son of Omri, did evil in the sight of the LORD more than all who were before him.
It came to pass, as if it had been a trivial thing for him to walk in the sins of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, that he took as his wife Jezebel, the daughter of Ethbaal, king of the Zidonians, and went and served Baal and worshipped him.
He erected an altar for Baal in the house of Baal, which he built in Samaria.
Ahab made a grove; Ahab did more to provoke the LORD God of Israel to anger than all the kings of Israel who were before him.
In his days, Hiel the Bethelite built Jericho; he laid the foundation in Abiram, his firstborn, and set up the gates in his youngest son Segub, according to the word of the LORD, which he spoke by Joshua, the son of Nun.
