Then Deborah and Barak, the son of Abinoam, sang on that day, saying,
Praise the LORD for avenging Israel, when the people willingly offered themselves.
Hear, O kings; give ear, O princes; I, even I, will sing to the LORD; I will praise the LORD God of Israel.
LORD, when You went out from Seir, when You marched from the field of Edom, the earth trembled, and the heavens poured down rain; the clouds also dropped water.
The mountains melted before the LORD, even Sinai before the LORD God of Israel.
In the days of Shamgar, son of Anath, in the days of Jael, the highways were deserted, and travelers walked along byways.
The inhabitants of the villages ceased; they ceased in Israel, until I, Deborah, arose, a mother in Israel.
They chose new gods; then war was at the gates: was there a shield or spear seen among forty thousand in Israel?
My heart is with the governors of Israel, who offered themselves willingly among the people. Bless the LORD.
Speak, you who ride on white donkeys, you who sit in judgment, and walk along the way.
Those who are delivered from the noise of archers at the watering places, there they shall recount the righteous acts of the LORD, the righteous acts toward the inhabitants of His villages in Israel; then the people of the LORD shall go down to the gates.
Awake, awake, Deborah! Awake, awake, sing a song! Arise, Barak, and lead your captives away, son of Abinoam.
Then He made him who remains have dominion over the nobles among the people; the LORD made me have dominion over the mighty.
Out of Ephraim came a root against Amalek; after you, Benjamin, among your people; out of Machir came down governors, and out of Zebulun those who handle the pen of the writer.
And the princes of Issachar were with Deborah; even Issachar, and Barak: he was sent on foot into the valley. For the divisions of Reuben there were great thoughts of heart.
Why did you stay among the sheepfolds, to hear the bleating of the flocks? For the divisions of Reuben there were great searchings of heart.
Gilead stayed beyond the Jordan; and why did Dan remain in ships? Asher continued on the seashore and stayed in his inlets.
Zebulun and Naphtali were a people who risked their lives to the death in the high places of the field.
The kings came and fought; then the kings of Canaan fought in Taanach by the waters of Megiddo; they took no gain of money.
They fought from heaven; the stars in their courses fought against Sisera.
The river Kishon swept them away, that ancient river, the river Kishon. O my soul, you have trodden down strength.
Then the horse hooves were broken by the means of the prancing, the prancing of their mighty ones.
Curse Meroz, said the angel of the LORD; curse bitterly the inhabitants thereof; because they did not come to the help of the LORD, to the help of the LORD against the mighty.
Blessed above women shall Jael, the wife of Heber the Kenite, be; blessed shall she be above women in the tent.
He asked for water, and she gave him milk; she brought forth butter in a lordly dish.
She put her hand to the tent peg, and her right hand to the workmen's hammer; and with the hammer, she struck Sisera, she struck off his head, when she had pierced and struck through his temples.
At her feet, he bowed, he fell, he lay down; at her feet, he bowed, he fell; where he bowed, there he fell down dead.
The mother of Sisera looked out at a window and cried through the lattice, "Why is his chariot so long in coming? Why do the wheels of his chariots tarry?"
Her wise ladies answered her; yes, she returned answer to herself,
"Have they not sped? Have they not divided the prey; to every man a damsel or two; to Sisera a prey of diverse colors, a prey of diverse colors of needlework, of diverse colors of needlework on both sides, meet for the necks of those who take the spoil?"
So let all Your enemies perish, O LORD; but let those who love Him be like the sun when it goes forth in its might. And the land had rest for forty years.
