Thus says the LORD: For three transgressions of Moab, and for four, I will not turn away the punishment; because he burned the bones of the king of Edom to lime.  
But I will send a fire upon Moab, and it shall consume the palaces of Kirioth; and Moab shall perish amid tumult, shouting, and the sound of the trumpet.  
And I will cut off the judge from among them, and will slay all their princes, says the LORD.  
Thus says the LORD: For three transgressions of Judah, and for four, I will not turn away the punishment; because they have despised the law of the LORD, and have not kept His commandments, and their lies have led them astray, following the ways of their fathers.  
But I will send a fire upon Judah, and it shall consume the palaces of Jerusalem.  
Thus says the LORD: For three transgressions of Israel, and for four, I will not turn away the punishment; because they sold the righteous for silver, and the poor for a pair of shoes.  
They pant after the dust of the earth on the heads of the poor, and turn aside the way of the meek; a man and his father go in to the same maid, to profane My holy name.  
And they lie down on garments taken in pledge by every altar, and they drink the wine of the condemned in the house of their god.  
Yet I destroyed the Amorite before them, whose height was like the height of cedars, and who was as strong as oaks; yet I destroyed his fruit from above and his roots from beneath.  
Also, I brought you up from the land of Egypt and led you forty years through the wilderness to possess the land of the Amorite.  
And I raised up some of your sons as prophets, and some of your young men as Nazarites. Is it not so, O children of Israel? says the LORD.  
But you gave the Nazarites wine to drink and commanded the prophets, saying, "Do not prophesy."  
Behold, I am pressed under you, as a cart is pressed that is full of sheaves.  
Therefore, the swift shall perish, and the strong shall not strengthen his force; neither shall the mighty deliver himself.  
Neither shall he stand who handles the bow; and he who is swift of foot shall not deliver himself; neither shall he who rides the horse escape.  
And he who is courageous among the mighty shall flee away naked in that day, says the LORD.  