Here are the edited lines:
Now, these are the generations of the sons of Noah: Shem, Ham, and Japheth; and unto them were sons born after the flood.
The sons of Japheth are Gomer, Magog, Madai, Javan, Tubal, Meshech, and Tiras.
The sons of Gomer are Ashkenaz, Riphath, and Togarmah.
The sons of Javan are Elishah, Tarshish, Kittim, and Dodanim.
By these, the isles of the Gentiles were divided in their lands, each according to their tongue, families, and nations.
The sons of Ham are Cush, Mizraim, Phut, and Canaan.
The sons of Cush are Seba, Havilah, Sabtah, Raamah, and Sabtechah; and the sons of Raamah are Sheba and Dedan.
Cush begat Nimrod; he began to be a mighty one on the earth.
He was a mighty hunter before the LORD; therefore, it is said, "Even as Nimrod, the mighty hunter before the LORD."
The beginning of his kingdom was Babel, Erech, Accad, and Calneh, in the land of Shinar.
Out of that land went forth Asshur, who built Nineveh, the city Rehoboth, and Calah,
And Resen, which is between Nineveh and Calah; this is a great city.
Mizraim begat Ludim, Anamim, Lehabim, and Naphtuhim,
And Pathrusim, Casluhim (from whom came the Philistines), and Caphtorim.
Canaan begat Sidon, his firstborn, and Heth,
And the Jebusite, the Amorite, and the Girgasite,
And the Hivite, the Arkite, and the Sinite,
And the Arvadite, the Zemarite, and the Hamathite; afterward, the families of the Canaanites spread abroad.
The border of the Canaanites was from Sidon, as you come to Gerar, unto Gaza; as you go, unto Sodom, Gomorrah, Admah, and Zeboim, even unto Lasha.
These are the sons of Ham, according to their families, tongues, countries, and nations.
To Shem also, the father of all the children of Eber, the brother of Japheth the elder, children were born.
The children of Shem are Elam, Asshur, Arphaxad, Lud, and Aram.
The children of Aram are Uz, Hul, Gether, and Mash.
Arphaxad begat Salah; and Salah begat Eber.
Eber had two sons: the name of one was Peleg, for in his days the earth was divided; and his brother's name was Joktan.
Joktan begat Almodad, Sheleph, Hazarmaveth, and Jerah,
And Hadoram, Uzal, and Diklah,
And Obal, Abimael, and Sheba,
And Ophir, Havilah, and Jobab; all these were the sons of Joktan.
Their dwelling was from Mesha, as you go unto Sephar, a mountain in the east.
These are the sons of Shem, according to their families, tongues, lands, and nations.
These are the families of the sons of Noah, according to their generations and nations; by these, the nations were divided in the earth after the flood.
