In the fifteenth year of Tiberius Caesar's reign, Pontius Pilate served as governor of Judea, while Herod was tetrarch of Galilee, and his brother Philip was tetrarch of Ituraea and the region of Trachonitis, with Lysanias as the tetrarch of Abilene.
Annas and Caiaphas held the position of high priests, and the word of God came to John, the son of Zacharias, in the wilderness.
He traveled throughout the region around the Jordan, preaching a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins.
As it is written in the book of the words of the prophet Isaiah, "The voice of one crying in the wilderness: Prepare the way of the Lord, make His paths straight."
Every valley shall be filled, every mountain and hill shall be made low; the crooked shall be made straight, and the rough ways shall be made smooth.
And all flesh shall see the salvation of God.
He addressed the crowd that came to be baptized, saying, "O generation of vipers, who warned you to flee from the coming wrath?
Produce fruit in keeping with repentance, and do not begin to say to yourselves, 'We have Abraham as our father.' For I tell you that out of these stones God can raise up children for Abraham.
The axe is already at the root of the trees, and every tree that does not produce good fruit will be cut down and thrown into the fire."
The people asked him, "What should we do then?"
He answered, "Anyone who has two coats should share with the one who has none, and anyone who has food should do the same."
Tax collectors also came to be baptized. "Teacher," they asked, "what should we do?"
He replied, "Don't collect any more than you are required to."
Then some soldiers asked him, "And what should we do?" He replied, "Don't extort money and don't accuse people falsely. Be content with your pay."
The people were waiting expectantly and were all wondering in their hearts if John might possibly be the Messiah.
John answered them all, "I baptize you with water, but one who is more powerful than I will come, the straps of whose sandals I am not worthy to untie. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire.
His winnowing fork is in His hand to clear His threshing floor and to gather the wheat into His barn, but He will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire."
And with many other words, John exhorted the people and proclaimed the good news to them.
But when John rebuked Herod the tetrarch because of Herodias, his brother Philip's wife, and all the other evil things he had done,
Herod added this to them all: He locked John up in prison.
When all the people were being baptized, Jesus was baptized too. And as He was praying, heaven was opened,
and the Holy Spirit descended on Him in bodily form like a dove. And a voice came from heaven: "You are my Son, whom I love; with you I am well pleased."
Now Jesus himself was about thirty years old when He began His ministry. He was thought to be the son of Joseph, the son of Heli,
the son of Matthat, the son of Levi, the son of Melchi, the son of Janna, the son of Joseph,
the son of Mattathias, the son of Amos, the son of Naum, the son of Esli, the son of Nagge,
the son of Maath, the son of Mattathias, the son of Semei, the son of Joseph, the son of Juda,
the son of Joanna, the son of Rhesa, the son of Zorobabel, the son of Salathiel, the son of Neri,
the son of Melchi, the son of Addi, the son of Cosam, the son of Elmodam, the son of Er,
the son of Jose, the son of Eliezer, the son of Jorim, the son of Matthat, the son of Levi,
the son of Simeon, the son of Juda, the son of Joseph, the son of Jonan, the son of Eliakim,
the son of Melea, the son of Menan, the son of Mattatha, the son of Nathan, the son of David,
the son of Jesse, the son of Obed, the son of Booz, the son of Salmon, the son of Naasson,
the son of Aminadab, the son of Aram, the son of Esrom, the son of Phares, the son of Juda,
the son of Jacob, the son of Isaac, the son of Abraham, the son of Thara, the son of Nachor,
the son of Saruch, the son of Ragau, the son of Phalec, the son of Heber, the son of Sala,
the son of Cainan, the son of Arphaxad, the son of Sem, the son of Noe, the son of Lamech,
the son of Mathusala, the son of Enoch, the son of Jared, the son of Maleleel, the son of Cainan,
the son of Enos, the son of Seth, the son of Adam, the son of God.
