The proverbs of Solomon, son of David, king of Israel;
To gain wisdom and instruction; to understand the words of insight;
To accept the guidance of wisdom, justice, judgment, and fairness;
To provide insight to the naive, and knowledge and discretion to the young.
A wise person will listen and increase their learning; a person of understanding will attain wise counsel:
To comprehend a proverb and its interpretation; the words of the wise and their enigmatic sayings.
The fear of the LORD is the beginning of knowledge; fools, however, despise wisdom and instruction.
My child, listen to your father's instruction and do not forsake your mother's teaching:
For they will be a garland of grace for your head and chains around your neck.
My child, if sinners entice you, do not consent.
If they say, "Come with us, let us lie in wait for blood, let us ambush the innocent without cause:
Let us swallow them alive like the grave, and whole, like those who go down to the pit:
We will find all precious goods; we will fill our houses with plunder:
Cast your lot in with us; let us all share one purse:"
My child, do not walk in their way; keep your foot from their path:
For their feet run to evil and they hurry to shed blood.
Surely, it is in vain that a net is spread in the sight of any bird.
And they lie in wait for their own blood; they lurk secretly for their own lives.
Such are the ways of everyone who is greedy for gain; it takes away the life of its owners.
Wisdom calls out in the streets; she raises her voice in the public squares:
She cries out at the busiest corners, at the entrance of the city, she speaks her words, saying,
"How long, you simple ones, will you love simplicity? How long will scoffers delight in their scoffing, and fools hate knowledge?
Turn at my rebuke; behold, I will pour out my spirit on you, I will make my words known to you.
Because I have called and you refused; I have stretched out my hand and no one paid attention;
But you have ignored all my counsel and would not accept my rebuke:
I will also laugh at your calamity; I will mock when your fear comes;
When your fear comes like desolation and your destruction comes like a whirlwind; when distress and anguish come upon you.
Then they will call upon me, but I will not answer; they will seek me diligently, but they will not find me:
Because they hated knowledge and did not choose the fear of the LORD:
They rejected my counsel and despised all my rebuke.
Therefore, they shall eat the fruit of their own way and be filled with their own devices.
For the turning away of the simple will slay them, and the complacency of fools will destroy them.
But whoever listens to me will dwell safely and will be at ease from the fear of evil.
