And afterward, Moses and Aaron went in and told Pharaoh, "Thus saith the LORD God of Israel: Let my people go, that they may hold a feast unto me in the wilderness."  
Pharaoh responded, "Who is the LORD, that I should obey his voice and let Israel go? I do not know the LORD, nor will I let Israel go."  
They replied, "The God of the Hebrews has met with us. Let us go, we pray thee, three days' journey into the desert to sacrifice unto the LORD our God; lest he fall upon us with pestilence or with the sword."  
The king of Egypt said to them, "Why do you, Moses and Aaron, let the people rest from their work? Go back to your burdens."  
Pharaoh continued, "Behold, the people of the land are now many, and you make them rest from their burdens."  
On that same day, Pharaoh commanded the taskmasters of the people and their officers, saying,  
"You shall no longer give the people straw to make bricks as before; let them go and gather straw for themselves."  
"And the quota of bricks, which they made before, you shall impose upon them; you shall not diminish anything from it, for they are idle; therefore, they cry, saying, 'Let us go and sacrifice to our God.'"  
"Let more work be laid upon the men so that they may labor in it; and let them not regard vain words."  
The taskmasters of the people went out with their officers and spoke to the people, saying, "Thus saith Pharaoh: I will not give you straw."  
"Go, get yourselves straw wherever you can find it; yet none of your work shall be diminished."  
So the people were scattered throughout all the land of Egypt to gather stubble instead of straw.  
The taskmasters urged them, saying, "Fulfill your work, your daily tasks, as when there was straw."  
The officers of the children of Israel, whom Pharaoh's taskmasters had set over them, were beaten and demanded, "Why have you not fulfilled your task in making bricks both yesterday and today, as before?"  
Then the officers of the children of Israel came and cried out to Pharaoh, saying, "Why do you deal with your servants this way?"  
"There is no straw given to your servants, and they say to us, 'Make bricks.' Behold, your servants are beaten, but the fault is with your own people."  
But he said, "You are idle, you are idle; therefore, you say, 'Let us go and sacrifice to the LORD.'"  
"Go now and work; for no straw shall be given to you, yet you shall deliver the quota of bricks."  
The officers of the children of Israel realized they were in a difficult situation after it was said, "You shall not diminish anything from your daily task of bricks."  
They met Moses and Aaron, who stood in their way as they came out from Pharaoh.  
They said to them, "The LORD look upon you and judge; because you have made our scent to be abhorred in the eyes of Pharaoh and in the eyes of his servants, putting a sword in their hand to slay us."  
Moses returned to the LORD and said, "LORD, why have you so evil entreated this people? Why is it that you have sent me?"  
"For since I came to Pharaoh to speak in your name, he has done evil to this people; neither have you delivered your people at all."