Blessed are those who are pure in their journey, who walk according to the law of the LORD.
Blessed are those who keep His testimonies and seek Him with all their heart.
They commit no wrong; they walk in His ways.
You have commanded us to diligently observe Your precepts.
Oh, that my paths were aligned with Your statutes!
Then I will not be ashamed when I regard all Your commandments.
I will praise You with sincerity of heart when I learn Your righteous judgments.
I will keep Your statutes; do not forsake me completely.
How can a young person keep their way pure? By paying attention to Your word.
With all my heart, I have sought You; do not let me stray from Your commandments.
I have hidden Your word in my heart so that I might not sin against You.
Blessed are You, O LORD; teach me Your statutes.
With my lips, I have proclaimed all the judgments of Your mouth.
I have rejoiced in the path of Your testimonies as much as in all riches.
I will meditate on Your precepts and consider Your ways.
I will find joy in Your statutes; I will not forget Your word.
Deal generously with Your servant so that I may live and keep Your word.
Open my eyes so that I may see wonderful things in Your law.
I am a stranger on earth; do not hide Your commandments from me.
My soul longs for Your judgments at all times.
You have rebuked the proud who are cursed, those who stray from Your commandments.
Remove from me disgrace and contempt, for I have kept Your testimonies.
Princes also sat and spoke against me; yet your servant meditated on your statutes.
Your testimonies are my delight and my counselors.
My soul clings to the dust; revive me according to your word.
I have declared my ways, and you heard me; teach me your statutes.
Make me understand the way of your precepts, so I may speak of your wondrous works.
My soul melts from heaviness; strengthen me according to your word.
Remove the way of lying from me, and graciously grant me your law.
I have chosen the way of truth; I have set your judgments before me.
I cling to your testimonies; O LORD, do not let me be put to shame.
I will run the path of your commandments when you enlarge my heart.
Teach me, O LORD, the way of your statutes, and I will keep it to the end.
Give me understanding, and I will keep your law; yes, I will observe it with my whole heart.
Make me walk in the path of your commandments, for I delight in it.
Incline my heart to your testimonies, and not to covetousness.
Turn my eyes away from looking at worthless things; revive me in your way.
Establish your word to your servant, who is devoted to your fear.
Turn away my reproach that I dread, for your judgments are good.
Behold, I long for your precepts; revive me in your righteousness.
Let your mercies come to me, O LORD, even your salvation, according to your word.
So I will have an answer for him who reproaches me, for I trust in your word.
And do not take the word of truth completely out of my mouth, for I have hoped in your judgments.
So I will keep your law continually, forever and ever.
I will walk in freedom, for I seek your precepts.
I will speak of your testimonies before kings, and I will not be ashamed.
I will find joy in your commandments, which I cherish.
I will lift my hands to your commandments, which I love; and I will meditate on your statutes.
Remember the word you gave to your servant, on which you have caused me to hope.
This is my comfort in my affliction: your word has revived me.
The proud have mocked me greatly, yet I have not strayed from your law.
I remembered your ancient judgments, O LORD, and found comfort in them.
Fear has gripped me because of the wicked who forsake your law.
Your statutes have been my songs during my journey.
I have remembered your name, O LORD, in the night, and I have kept your law.
This is what I have, because I have kept your precepts.
You are my portion, O LORD; I have declared that I will keep your words.
I sought your favor with all my heart; be merciful to me according to your word.
I reflected on my ways and turned my feet to your testimonies.
I hurried and did not delay to keep your commandments.
The wicked have robbed me, but I have not forgotten your law.
At midnight, I will rise to give thanks to you for your righteous judgments.
I am a companion of all who fear you and of those who keep your precepts.
The earth, O LORD, is full of your mercy; teach me your statutes.
You have dealt well with your servant, O LORD, according to your word.
Teach me good judgment and knowledge, for I have believed in your commandments.
Before I was afflicted, I went astray; but now I have kept your word.
You are good and do good; teach me your statutes.
The proud have forged a lie against me, but I will keep your precepts with my whole heart.
Their hearts are as fat as grease, but I delight in your law.
It is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I might learn your statutes.
The law of your mouth is better to me than thousands of gold and silver.
Your hands have made me and fashioned me; give me understanding that I may learn your commandments.
Those who fear you will be glad when they see me, because I have hoped in your word.
I know, O LORD, that your judgments are right, and that you in faithfulness have afflicted me.
Let, I pray, your merciful kindness be my comfort, according to your word to your servant.
Let your tender mercies come to me, that I may live, for your law is my delight.
Let the proud be ashamed, for they dealt perversely with me without cause; but I will meditate on your precepts.
Let those who fear you turn to me, and those who have known your testimonies.
Let my heart be sound in your statutes, that I may not be ashamed.
My soul faints for your salvation, but I hope in your word.
My eyes fail for your word, saying, When will you comfort me?
For I have become like a bottle in the smoke; yet I do not forget your statutes.
How many are the days of your servant? When will you execute judgment on those who persecute me?
The proud have dug pits for me, which are not according to your law.
All your commandments are faithful; they persecute me wrongfully; help me.
They had almost consumed me on earth, but I have not forsaken your precepts.
Revive me according to your lovingkindness; so shall I keep the testimony of your mouth.
Forever, O LORD, your word is established in heaven.
Your faithfulness extends to all generations: you have founded the earth, and it endures.
They continue this day according to your ordinances: for all are your servants.
If your law had not been my delight, I would have perished in my affliction.
I will never forget your precepts: for with them you have given me life.
I am yours; save me, for I have sought your precepts.
The wicked have waited for me to destroy me: but I will reflect on your testimonies.
I have seen the end of all perfection: but your commandment is exceedingly broad.
O how I love your law! It is my meditation all day long.
You, through your commandments, have made me wiser than my enemies: for they are always with me.
I have more understanding than all my teachers: for your testimonies are my meditation.
I understand more than the elders, because I keep your precepts.
I have kept my feet from every evil way, that I might keep your word.
I have not departed from your judgments: for you have taught me.
How sweet are your words to my taste! Yes, sweeter than honey to my mouth!
Through your precepts, I gain understanding: therefore, I hate every false way.
Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path.
I have sworn, and I will fulfill it, that I will keep your righteous judgments.
I am greatly afflicted: revive me, O LORD, according to your word.
Accept, I pray, the freewill offerings of my mouth, O LORD, and teach me your judgments.
My soul is continually in my hand: yet I do not forget your law.
The wicked have set a snare for me: yet I have not strayed from your precepts.
Your testimonies have become my everlasting heritage, for they bring joy to my heart.
I have set my heart to consistently follow your statutes, even to the very end.
I despise empty thoughts, but I cherish your law.
You are my refuge and my shield; I place my hope in your word.
Leave me alone, you evildoers, for I will uphold the commandments of my God.
Support me according to your word, so that I may live, and let me not be ashamed of my hope.
Lift me up, and I will be safe; I will continually respect your statutes.
You have cast down all who stray from your statutes, for their deceit is falsehood.
You remove all the wicked from the earth like dross; therefore, I love your testimonies.
My flesh trembles in fear of you; I am afraid of your judgments.
I have acted with justice and fairness; do not leave me to my oppressors.
Be a guarantor for your servant for good; do not let the proud oppress me.
My eyes fail as I wait for your salvation and for the promise of your righteousness.
Deal with your servant according to your mercy, and teach me your statutes.
I am your servant; grant me understanding so that I may know your testimonies.
It is time for you, LORD, to act, for they have disregarded your law.
Therefore, I love your commandments more than gold; yes, more than fine gold.
Thus, I regard all your precepts as right, and I hate every false way.
Your testimonies are marvelous; therefore, my soul keeps them.
The entrance of your words brings light; it gives understanding to the simple.
I opened my mouth and sighed, for I longed for your commandments.
Look upon me and be merciful to me, as you have always done for those who love your name.
Order my steps according to your word, and let no iniquity have dominion over me.
Deliver me from the oppression of man, so that I may keep your precepts.
Make your face shine upon your servant, and teach me your statutes.
Rivers of tears flow down my eyes because they do not keep your law.
Righteous are you, O LORD, and upright are your judgments.
Your testimonies that you have commanded are righteous and very faithful.
My zeal has consumed me, for my enemies have forgotten your words.
Your word is very pure; therefore, your servant loves it.
I am small and despised, yet I do not forget your precepts.
Your righteousness is everlasting, and your law is the truth.
Trouble and anguish have taken hold of me, yet your commandments are my delights.
The righteousness of your testimonies is everlasting; give me understanding, and I shall live.
I cried out with my whole heart; hear me, O LORD; I will keep your statutes.
I cried to you; save me, and I shall keep your testimonies.
I prevented the dawn from breaking and cried; I hoped in your word.
My eyes prevent the night watches so that I may meditate on your word.
Hear my voice according to your lovingkindness; O LORD, revive me according to your judgment.
Those who pursue mischief draw near; they are far from your law.
You are near, O LORD, and all your commandments are truth.
Concerning your testimonies, I have known from old that you have established them forever.
Consider my affliction and deliver me, for I do not forget your law.
Plead my cause and deliver me; revive me according to your word.
Salvation is distant from the wicked, for they do not seek your statutes.
Great are your tender mercies, O LORD; revive me according to your judgments.
Many are my persecutors and enemies; yet I do not turn away from your testimonies.
I observed the transgressors and was troubled, for they do not keep your word.
Consider how I love your precepts; revive me, O LORD, according to your lovingkindness.
Your word is true from the beginning, and all your righteous judgments endure forever.
Princes have persecuted me without cause, but my heart stands in awe of your word.
I rejoice in your word, as one who finds great treasure.
I hate and detest lying, but I love your law.
Seven times a day I praise you for your righteous judgments.
Great peace have those who love your law; nothing shall cause them to stumble.
LORD, I have hoped for your salvation and kept your commandments.
My soul has kept your testimonies, and I love them greatly.
I have kept your precepts and your testimonies, for all my ways are before you.
Let my cry come near before you, O LORD; grant me understanding according to your word.
Let my supplication come before you; deliver me according to your word.
My lips will declare your praise when you teach me your statutes.
My tongue will speak of your word, for all your commandments are righteousness.
Let your hand help me, for I have chosen your precepts.
I have longed for your salvation, O LORD, and your law is my delight.
Let my soul live, and it will praise you; let your judgments help me.
I have gone astray like a lost sheep; seek your servant, for I do not forget your commandments.
