And after these things, I heard a great voice of many people in heaven, saying, "Alleluia! Salvation, glory, honor, and power belong to the Lord our God.  
For true and righteous are His judgments; for He has judged the great whore who corrupted the earth with her fornication and avenged the blood of His servants at her hand.  
And again they said, "Alleluia!" And her smoke rose up forever and ever.  
And the four and twenty elders and the four living creatures fell down and worshipped God who sat on the throne, saying, "Amen! Alleluia!"  
And a voice came out of the throne, saying, "Praise our God, all you His servants, and you who fear Him, both small and great."  
And I heard, as it were, the voice of a great multitude, and the voice of many waters, and the voice of mighty thunderings, saying, "Alleluia! For the Lord God omnipotent reigns."  
Let us be glad and rejoice, and give honor to Him; for the marriage of the Lamb has come, and His wife has made herself ready.  
And to her was granted that she should be arrayed in fine linen, clean and white; for the fine linen is the righteousness of saints.  
And He said to me, "Write: Blessed are those who are called to the marriage supper of the Lamb." And He said to me, "These are the true sayings of God."  
And I fell at His feet to worship Him. But He said to me, "See that you do not do that! I am your fellow servant, and of your brethren who have the testimony of Jesus. Worship God! For the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy."  
And I saw heaven opened, and behold, a white horse; and He who sat on it was called Faithful and True, and in righteousness, He judges and makes war.  
His eyes were like a flame of fire, and on His head were many crowns; and He had a name written that no one knew except Himself.  
And He was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood, and His name is called The Word of God.  
And the armies which were in heaven followed Him on white horses, clothed in fine linen, white and clean.  
And out of His mouth goes a sharp sword, that with it He should strike the nations; and He shall rule them with a rod of iron; and He treads the winepress of the fierceness and wrath of Almighty God.  
And He has on His vesture and on His thigh a name written: KING OF KINGS AND LORD OF LORDS.  
And I saw an angel standing in the sun; and he cried with a loud voice, saying to all the birds that fly in the midst of heaven, "Come and gather yourselves together to the supper of the great God;  
That you may eat the flesh of kings, the flesh of captains, the flesh of mighty men, the flesh of horses, and of those who sit on them, and the flesh of all men, both free and bond, both small and great."  
And I saw the beast, and the kings of the earth, and their armies gathered together to make war against Him who sat on the horse and against His army.  
And the beast was captured, and with him the false prophet who performed miracles before him, by which he deceived those who had received the mark of the beast and those who worshipped his image. These both were cast alive into a lake of fire burning with brimstone.  
And the rest were killed with the sword of Him who sat on the horse, which sword proceeded out of His mouth; and all the birds were filled with their flesh.  