My son, do not forget my teachings; let your heart hold fast to my commandments.
For they will add length of days, a long life, and peace to you.
Do not let mercy and truth leave you; tie them around your neck; inscribe them on the tablet of your heart.
Then you will find favor and good understanding in the sight of God and man.
Trust in the LORD with all your heart; do not rely on your own understanding.
In all your ways acknowledge Him, and He will make your paths straight.
Do not be wise in your own eyes; fear the LORD and turn away from evil.
This will bring health to your body and nourishment to your bones.
Honor the LORD with your wealth and with the firstfruits of all your crops.
Then your barns will be filled to overflowing, and your vats will brim over with new wine.
My son, do not despise the LORD's discipline, and do not resent His rebuke.
For the LORD disciplines those He loves, as a father the son he delights in.
Blessed is the man who finds wisdom, the man who gains understanding.
For she is more profitable than silver and yields better returns than gold.
She is more precious than rubies; nothing you desire can compare with her.
Long life is in her right hand; in her left hand are riches and honor.
Her paths are pleasant paths, and all her ways are peace.
She is a tree of life to those who embrace her; happy are those who hold her fast.
The LORD founded the earth by wisdom and established the heavens by understanding.
By His knowledge, the watery depths were divided, and the clouds let drop the dew.
My son, do not let wisdom and discretion out of your sight; preserve sound judgment and discernment.
They will be life for you, an ornament to grace your neck.
Then you will go on your way in safety, and your foot will not stumble.
When you lie down, you will not be afraid; when you lie down, your sleep will be sweet.
Do not fear sudden danger or the ruin that overtakes the wicked, when it comes.
For the LORD will be your confidence and will keep your foot from being snared.
Do not withhold good from those to whom it is due, when it is in your power to act.
Do not say to your neighbor, "Come back later; I'll give it tomorrow," when you now have it with you.
Do not plot harm against your neighbor, who lives trustfully near you.
Do not accuse a man for no reason, when he has done you no harm.
Do not envy a violent man or choose any of his ways.
For the LORD detests the perverse but takes the upright into His confidence.
The LORD's curse is on the house of the wicked, but He blesses the home of the righteous.
He mocks proud mockers but shows favor to the humble and oppressed.
The wise inherit honor, but fools get only shame.
