Listen, O heavens, and I will speak; and hear, O earth, the words from my mouth.
My teaching will fall like rain, my words will flow like dew, like gentle rain on tender grass, and like showers on the fields.
For I will proclaim the name of the LORD; give glory to our God.
He is the Rock; His work is perfect; all His ways are just. He is a God of truth and without injustice; righteous and upright is He.
They have corrupted themselves; their blemish is not the blemish of His children; they are a perverse and crooked generation.
Do you thus repay the LORD, O foolish and unwise people? Is He not your Father who created you? Has He not made you and established you?
Remember the days of old; consider the years of many generations. Ask your father, and he will inform you; your elders, and they will tell you.
When the Most High divided the nations their inheritance, when He separated the sons of Adam, He set the boundaries of the peoples according to the number of the children of Israel.
For the LORD's portion is His people; Jacob is the lot of His inheritance.
He found him in a desert land, and in the howling wilderness; He encircled him, instructed him, and kept him as the apple of His eye.
As an eagle stirs up its nest, hovers over its young, spreads its wings, takes them, and carries them on its wings,
So the LORD alone led him, and there was no foreign god with him.
He made him ride on the heights of the earth, to eat the produce of the fields; He made him suck honey from the rock and oil from the flinty rock;
Curds from the herd, and milk from the flock, with the fat of lambs, and rams from the breed of Bashan, and goats, with the finest of the wheat; and you drank the pure blood of the grape.
But Jeshurun grew fat and kicked; you grew fat, you grew thick, you are covered with fatness; then he forsook God who made him, and lightly esteemed the Rock of his salvation.
They provoked Him to jealousy with foreign gods; with abominations they provoked Him to anger.
They sacrificed to demons, not to God; to gods they had not known, to new gods that had just come along, whom your fathers did not fear.
You are unmindful of the Rock that bore you, and you have forgotten the God who gave you birth.
And when the LORD saw it, He spurned them, because of the provocation of His sons and daughters.
And He said, I will hide My face from them; I will see what their end will be; for they are a perverse generation, children in whom is no faith.
They have made Me jealous with what is not God; they have provoked Me to anger with their idols; so I will make them jealous with those who are not a people; I will provoke them to anger with a foolish nation.
For a fire is kindled in My anger, and it shall burn to the lowest hell; it shall consume the earth with its increase, and set on fire the foundations of the mountains.
I will heap disasters upon them; I will spend My arrows upon them.
They shall be burned with hunger, and devoured with burning heat and bitter destruction; I will also send the teeth of beasts upon them, with the venom of serpents of the dust.
The sword outside, and terror within, shall destroy both the young man and the virgin, the nursing child with the man of gray hairs.
I said, I would scatter them into corners; I would make the remembrance of them cease from among men.
Were it not that I feared the wrath of the enemy, lest their adversaries should misunderstand and say, Our hand is high, and the LORD has not done all this.
For they are a nation void of counsel, and there is no understanding in them.
Oh, that they were wise, that they understood this, that they would consider their latter end!
How could one chase a thousand, and two put ten thousand to flight, unless their Rock had sold them, and the LORD had shut them up?
For their rock is not like our Rock, even our enemies themselves being judges.
For their vine is from the vine of Sodom, and from the fields of Gomorrah; their grapes are grapes of gall, their clusters are bitter.
Their wine is the poison of dragons, and the cruel venom of asps.
Is this not laid up in store with Me, sealed up among My treasures?
Vengeance and recompense belong to Me; their foot shall slip in due time; for the day of their calamity is at hand, and the things to come hasten upon them.
For the LORD will judge His people, and He will have compassion on His servants, when He sees that their power is gone, and there is no one remaining, or left.
And He shall say, Where are their gods, the rock in whom they trusted,
Who ate the fat of their sacrifices, and drank the wine of their drink offerings? Let them rise up and help you, and be your protection.
See now that I, even I, am He, and there is no god with Me; I kill, and I make alive; I wound, and I heal; and there is none that can deliver out of My hand.
For I lift up My hand to heaven, and say, I live forever.
If I sharpen My glittering sword, and My hand takes hold of judgment; I will render vengeance to My enemies, and will reward those who hate Me.
I will make My arrows drunk with blood, and My sword shall devour flesh; and that with the blood of the slain and of the captives, from the beginning of revenges upon the enemy.
Rejoice, O you nations, with His people; for He will avenge the blood of His servants, and will render vengeance to His adversaries, and will be merciful to His land and to His people.
And Moses came and spoke all the words of this song in the ears of the people, he and Hoshea the son of Nun.
And Moses finished speaking all these words to all Israel.
And he said to them, Set your hearts to all the words which I testify among you this day, which you shall command your children to observe and do, all the words of this law.
For it is not a vain thing for you; because it is your life; and through this thing you shall prolong your days in the land, where you go over Jordan to possess it.
And the LORD spoke to Moses that very day, saying,
Get up into this mountain Abarim, to Mount Nebo, which is in the land of Moab, opposite Jericho; and behold the land of Canaan, which I give to the children of Israel for a possession.
And die on the mountain where you go up, and be gathered to your people; as Aaron your brother died on Mount Hor and was gathered to his people.
Because you trespassed against Me among the children of Israel at the waters of Meribah-Kadesh, in the wilderness of Zin; because you did not sanctify Me in the midst of the children of Israel.
Yet you shall see the land before you; but you shall not go there, to the land which I give to the children of Israel.
