At the end of every seven years, you shall make a release.  
This is how the release shall be conducted: Every creditor who lends anything to his neighbor shall forgive the debt; he shall not demand it from his neighbor or his brother, for it is called the LORD's release.  
You may demand it from a foreigner, but what is yours with your brother, you shall release.  
Except when there are no poor among you; for the LORD will greatly bless you in the land that the LORD your God is giving you as an inheritance to possess.  
Only if you carefully listen to the voice of the LORD your God, to observe and do all these commandments that I command you today.  
For the LORD your God will bless you, as He promised you: you shall lend to many nations, but you shall not borrow; you shall rule over many nations, but they shall not rule over you.  
If there is among you a poor man from one of your brothers within any of your gates in the land that the LORD your God is giving you, you shall not harden your heart or close your hand against your poor brother.  
Instead, you shall open your hand wide to him and lend him sufficient for his need, whatever he lacks.  
Beware that there is not a wicked thought in your heart, saying, "The seventh year, the year of release, is near," and your eye becomes hostile toward your poor brother, so that you give him nothing; and he cries out to the LORD against you, and it becomes sin for you.  
You shall surely give to him, and your heart shall not be grieved when you give to him, for because of this thing, the LORD your God will bless you in all your work and in all that you undertake.  
For the poor will never cease to be in the land; therefore, I command you, saying, "You shall open your hand wide to your brother, to your poor, and to your needy in your land."  
If your brother, a Hebrew man or woman, is sold to you and serves you for six years, then in the seventh year, you shall let him go free from you.  
When you send him out free from you, you shall not let him go away empty-handed.  
You shall furnish him generously from your flock, from your threshing floor, and from your winepress; from what the LORD your God has blessed you with, you shall give to him.  
And you shall remember that you were a bondman in the land of Egypt, and the LORD your God redeemed you; therefore, I command you this today.  
If he says to you, "I will not go away from you," because he loves you and your house, since he is well off with you,  
Then you shall take an awl and pierce it through his ear to the door, and he shall be your servant forever. You shall do the same for your maidservant.  
It shall not seem hard to you when you send him away free from you, for he has been worth a double hired servant to you, serving you for six years; and the LORD your God will bless you in all that you do.  
You shall sanctify all the firstborn males that come from your herd and from your flock to the LORD your God; you shall do no work with the firstborn of your bull, nor shear the firstborn of your sheep.  
You shall eat it before the LORD your God year by year in the place that the LORD will choose, you and your household.  
If there is any blemish in it, as if it is lame, blind, or has any serious blemish, you shall not sacrifice it to the LORD your God.  
You shall eat it within your gates; the unclean and the clean person shall eat it alike, as the deer and the gazelle.  
Only you shall not eat the blood; you shall pour it out on the ground like water.