And once again, he entered Capernaum after a few days; and it was reported that he was in the house.  
Immediately, many gathered together, so much so that there was no room to receive them, not even around the door: and he preached the word to them.  
They came to him, bringing a man sick with palsy, carried by four people.  
When they could not get near him because of the crowd, they uncovered the roof where he was: and after breaking it up, they lowered the bed on which the sick man lay.  
When Jesus saw their faith, he said to the sick man, "Son, your sins are forgiven."  
But some of the scribes were sitting there, reasoning in their hearts,  
"Why does this man speak blasphemies? Who can forgive sins but God alone?"  
And immediately, when Jesus perceived in his spirit that they were reasoning within themselves, he said to them, "Why do you reason these things in your hearts?  
Which is easier to say to the sick man, 'Your sins are forgiven'; or to say, 'Get up, take your bed, and walk'?  
But so that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins," (he said to the sick man,)  
"I say to you, Get up, take your bed, and go home."  
And immediately he got up, took his bed, and went out before them all; so much so that they were all amazed and glorified God, saying, "We have never seen anything like this!"  
He went out again by the seaside; and all the multitude came to him, and he taught them.  
As he passed by, he saw Levi, the son of Alphaeus, sitting at the tax booth, and said to him, "Follow me." And he got up and followed him.  
It happened that as Jesus sat at dinner in his house, many tax collectors and sinners sat together with Jesus and his disciples; for there were many, and they followed him.  
When the scribes and Pharisees saw him eating with tax collectors and sinners, they said to his disciples, "How is it that he eats and drinks with tax collectors and sinners?"  
When Jesus heard this, he said to them, "Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick: I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance."  
The disciples of John and the Pharisees were fasting; and they came and said to him, "Why do the disciples of John and the Pharisees fast, but your disciples do not fast?"  
Jesus said to them, "Can the children of the bridechamber fast while the bridegroom is with them? As long as they have the bridegroom with them, they cannot fast.  
But the days will come when the bridegroom will be taken away from them, and then they will fast in those days.  
No one sews a piece of new cloth on an old garment; otherwise, the new piece that fills it up takes away from the old, and the tear is made worse.  
And no one puts new wine into old wineskins; otherwise, the new wine bursts the wineskins, and the wine is spilled, and the wineskins are ruined: but new wine must be put into new wineskins.  
It happened that he went through the grain fields on the Sabbath; and his disciples began to pluck the ears of corn as they went.  
The Pharisees said to him, "Look, why do they do what is not lawful on the Sabbath?"  
He said to them, "Have you never read what David did when he had need and was hungry, he and those with him?  
How he went into the house of God in the days of Abiathar the high priest, and ate the showbread, which is not lawful to eat except for the priests, and also gave some to those who were with him?"  
He said to them, "The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath.  
Therefore, the Son of Man is also Lord of the Sabbath."