Then Shephatiah, the son of Mattan, Gedaliah, the son of Pashur, Jucal, the son of Shelemiah, and Pashur, the son of Malchiah, heard the words that Jeremiah had spoken to all the people, saying,  
"Thus says the LORD: He who remains in this city shall die by the sword, by famine, and by pestilence; but he who goes out to the Chaldeans shall live; for he shall have his life as a prize, and shall live."  
"Thus says the LORD: This city shall surely be given into the hand of the king of Babylon's army, which shall capture it."  
Therefore, the princes said to the king, "We beseech you, let this man be put to death; for he weakens the hands of the men of war who remain in this city, and the hands of all the people, by speaking such words to them; for this man seeks not the welfare of this people, but their harm."  
Then Zedekiah the king said, "Behold, he is in your hand; for the king is not one who can do anything against you."  
Then they took Jeremiah and cast him into the dungeon of Malchiah, the son of Hammelech, that was in the court of the prison; and they let down Jeremiah with cords. And in the dungeon, there was no water, but mire; so Jeremiah sank in the mire.  
Now when Ebedmelech the Ethiopian, one of the eunuchs who was in the king's house, heard that they had put Jeremiah in the dungeon, while the king was sitting in the gate of Benjamin,  
Ebedmelech went out of the king's house and spoke to the king, saying,  
"My lord the king, these men have done evil in all that they have done to Jeremiah the prophet, whom they have cast into the dungeon; and he is likely to die of hunger in the place where he is, for there is no more bread in the city."  
Then the king commanded Ebedmelech the Ethiopian, saying, "Take from here thirty men with you, and lift up Jeremiah the prophet out of the dungeon before he dies."  
So Ebedmelech took the men with him, went into the king's house under the treasury, and took old cast clouts and old rotten rags, and let them down by cords into the dungeon to Jeremiah.  
And Ebedmelech the Ethiopian said to Jeremiah, "Put now these old cast clouts and rotten rags under your armpits under the cords." And Jeremiah did so.  
So they drew up Jeremiah with cords and took him out of the dungeon; and Jeremiah remained in the court of the prison.  
Then Zedekiah the king sent for Jeremiah the prophet and took him to the third entry that is in the house of the LORD; and the king said to Jeremiah, "I will ask you something; hide nothing from me."  
Then Jeremiah said to Zedekiah, "If I declare it to you, will you not surely put me to death? And if I give you counsel, will you not listen to me?"  
So Zedekiah the king swore secretly to Jeremiah, saying, "As the LORD lives, who made us this soul, I will not put you to death, nor will I give you into the hand of these men who seek your life."  
Then Jeremiah said to Zedekiah, "Thus says the LORD, the God of hosts, the God of Israel: If you will assuredly go forth to the king of Babylon's princes, then your soul shall live, and this city shall not be burned with fire; and you shall live, and your house.  
But if you do not go forth to the king of Babylon's princes, then this city shall be given into the hand of the Chaldeans, and they shall burn it with fire, and you shall not escape out of their hand."  
And Zedekiah the king said to Jeremiah, "I am afraid of the Jews who have defected to the Chaldeans, lest they deliver me into their hand, and they mock me."  
But Jeremiah said, "They shall not deliver you. Obey, I beseech you, the voice of the LORD, which I speak to you: so it shall be well with you, and your soul shall live."  
"But if you refuse to go forth, this is the word that the LORD has shown me:  
And behold, all the women who are left in the king of Judah's house shall be brought forth to the king of Babylon's princes, and those women shall say, 'Your friends have set you on and have prevailed against you; your feet are sunk in the mire, and they have turned away back.'  
So they shall bring out all your wives and your children to the Chaldeans; and you shall not escape out of their hand, but shall be taken by the hand of the king of Babylon; and you shall cause this city to be burned with fire."  
Then Zedekiah said to Jeremiah, "Let no man know of these words, and you shall not die."  
"But if the princes hear that I have talked with you, and they come to you and say to you, 'Declare to us now what you have said to the king; hide it not from us, and we will not put you to death; also what the king said to you,'  
Then you shall say to them, 'I presented my supplication before the king, that he would not cause me to return to Jonathan's house, to die there.'"  
Then all the princes came to Jeremiah and asked him; and he told them according to all these words that the king had commanded. So they left off speaking with him, for the matter was not perceived.  
So Jeremiah remained in the court of the prison until the day that Jerusalem was taken; and he was there when Jerusalem was taken.