When King Arad the Canaanite, who dwelt in the south, heard that Israel was coming by the way of the spies, he fought against Israel and took some of them captive.  
Israel made a vow to the LORD, saying, "If You will indeed deliver this people into my hand, then I will completely destroy their cities."  
The LORD listened to the voice of Israel and delivered up the Canaanites; they utterly destroyed them and their cities, and Moses named the place Hormah.  
They journeyed from Mount Hor by the way of the Red Sea to go around the land of Edom, and the people became very discouraged because of the journey.  
The people spoke against God and against Moses, saying, "Why have you brought us up out of Egypt to die in the wilderness? There is no bread, nor is there any water, and we detest this miserable food."  
The LORD sent fiery serpents among the people, and they bit the people; many of the Israelites died.  
Therefore, the people came to Moses and said, "We have sinned, for we have spoken against the LORD and against you; pray to the LORD that He take away the serpents from us." And Moses prayed for the people.  
The LORD said to Moses, "Make a fiery serpent and set it on a pole; and it shall be that everyone who is bitten, when he looks at it, shall live."  
Moses made a bronze serpent and put it on a pole; and if a serpent had bitten anyone, when he looked at the bronze serpent, he lived.  
The children of Israel set out and camped at Oboth.  
They journeyed from Oboth and camped at Ijeabarim, in the wilderness that is before Moab, toward the sunrise.  
From there they moved and camped in the valley of Zared.  
From there they moved and camped on the other side of Arnon, which is in the wilderness that comes out of the borders of the Amorites; for Arnon is the border of Moab, between Moab and the Amorites.  
Therefore, it is said in the book of the wars of the LORD, "What He did in the Red Sea and in the brooks of Arnon."  
And at the stream of the brooks that go down to the dwelling of Ar, which lies on the border of Moab.  
From there they went to Beer, which is the well of which the LORD spoke to Moses, "Gather the people together, and I will give them water."  
Then Israel sang this song: "Spring up, O well; sing to it!"  
The princes dug the well, the nobles of the people dug it, by the direction of the lawgiver, with their staffs. From the wilderness, they went to Mattanah.  
From Mattanah to Nahaliel, and from Nahaliel to Bamoth.  
From Bamoth in the valley, which is in the country of Moab, to the top of Pisgah, which looks toward Jeshimon.  
Israel sent messengers to Sihon, king of the Amorites, saying,  
"Let me pass through your land; we will not turn into the fields or into the vineyards; we will not drink of the waters of the well; we will go along the king's highway until we have passed your borders."  
But Sihon would not allow Israel to pass through his border; instead, he gathered all his people together and went out against Israel in the wilderness. He came to Jahaz and fought against Israel.  
Israel struck him with the edge of the sword and took possession of his land from Arnon to Jabbok, even to the children of Ammon, for the border of the children of Ammon was strong.  
Israel took all these cities and dwelt in all the cities of the Amorites, in Heshbon and in all its villages.  
For Heshbon was the city of Sihon, king of the Amorites, who had fought against the former king of Moab and taken all his land out of his hand, even to Arnon.  
Therefore, those who speak in proverbs say, "Come to Heshbon; let the city of Sihon be built and prepared."  
For a fire has gone out of Heshbon, a flame from the city of Sihon; it has consumed Ar of Moab and the lords of the high places of Arnon.  
Woe to you, Moab! You are undone, O people of Chemosh; he has given his sons that escaped and his daughters into captivity to Sihon, king of the Amorites.  
We have shot at them; Heshbon has perished even to Dibon, and we have laid them waste even to Nophah, which reaches to Medeba.  
Thus, Israel dwelt in the land of the Amorites.  
Moses sent to spy out Jaazer, and they took its villages and drove out the Amorites who were there.  
They turned and went up by the way of Bashan, and Og, the king of Bashan, went out against them, he and all his people, to battle at Edrei.  
The LORD said to Moses, "Do not fear him, for I have delivered him into your hand, along with all his people and his land; and you shall do to him as you did to Sihon, king of the Amorites, who dwelt at Heshbon."  
So they struck him, his sons, and all his people, until there was none left alive, and they took possession of his land.