How has the gold become dim! How has the finest gold changed! The stones of the sanctuary are scattered at the top of every street.  
The precious sons of Zion, comparable to fine gold, how are they regarded as earthen pitchers, the work of the potter's hands!  
Even the sea monsters nurse their young; they give suck to their offspring: the daughter of my people has become cruel, like the ostriches in the wilderness.  
The tongue of the nursing child clings to the roof of his mouth from thirst: the young children ask for bread, and no one breaks it for them.  
Those who once feasted delicately are desolate in the streets: those who were raised in scarlet now embrace refuse.  
For the punishment of the iniquity of the daughter of my people is greater than the punishment of the sin of Sodom, which was overthrown in an instant, with no hand to help her.  
Her Nazarites were purer than snow, whiter than milk, more ruddy in body than rubies; their appearance was like sapphire.  
Their appearance is blacker than coal; they are not recognized in the streets: their skin clings to their bones; it is withered, it has become like a stick.  
Those slain by the sword are better off than those who die of hunger: for these waste away, stricken for lack of the fruits of the field.  
The hands of compassionate women have cooked their own children; they became their food in the destruction of the daughter of my people.  
The LORD has fulfilled His fury; He has poured out His fierce anger and kindled a fire in Zion, which has devoured its foundations.  
The kings of the earth and all the inhabitants of the world would not have believed that the adversary and the enemy could enter the gates of Jerusalem.  
For the sins of her prophets and the iniquities of her priests, who have shed the blood of the innocent in her midst,  
They have wandered like blind men in the streets; they have defiled themselves with blood, so that no one could touch their garments.  
They cried out to them, "Depart; it is unclean; depart, depart, do not touch us": when they fled and wandered, they said among the nations, "They shall no longer dwell here."  
The anger of the LORD has separated them; He will no longer regard them: they did not respect the persons of the priests, nor did they favor the elders.  
As for us, our eyes have failed for our vain help: in our watching, we have looked for a nation that could not save us.  
They hunt our steps, so we cannot walk in our streets: our end is near, our days are fulfilled; for our end has come.  
Our persecutors are swifter than the eagles of the heavens: they pursued us upon the mountains and lay in wait for us in the wilderness.  
The breath of our nostrils, the anointed of the LORD, was caught in their traps, of whom we said, "Under his shadow, we shall live among the nations."  
Rejoice and be glad, O daughter of Edom, who dwells in the land of Uz; the cup shall also pass to you: you shall be drunken and expose yourself.  
The punishment of your iniquity is accomplished, O daughter of Zion; He will no longer carry you away into captivity: He will visit your iniquity, O daughter of Edom; He will uncover your sins.