Paul was called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, along with our brother Sosthenes.
To the church of God in Corinth, to those who are sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints, along with all who call upon the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, both theirs and ours:
Grace and peace be unto you from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
I thank my God always for you, for the grace of God that has been given to you through Jesus Christ;
That in everything you are enriched by Him, in all speech and all knowledge;
Even as the testimony of Christ was confirmed in you:
So that you do not lack in any gift, as you eagerly await the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ;
Who will also confirm you to the end, so that you may be blameless on the day of our Lord Jesus Christ.
God is faithful, by whom you were called into the fellowship of His Son, Jesus Christ our Lord.
Now I urge you, brothers, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you all speak the same thing and that there be no divisions among you; but that you be perfectly united in the same mind and judgment.
For it has been reported to me concerning you, my brothers, by those of Chloe's household, that there are quarrels among you.
Now I say this, that each of you says, "I am of Paul," "I am of Apollos," "I am of Cephas," and "I am of Christ."
Is Christ divided? Was Paul crucified for you? Or were you baptized in the name of Paul?
I thank God that I baptized none of you except Crispus and Gaius;
Lest anyone should say that I had baptized in my own name.
And I also baptized the household of Stephanas; beyond that, I do not know if I baptized any others.
For Christ did not send me to baptize, but to preach the gospel, not with eloquent wisdom, lest the cross of Christ be emptied of its power.
For the message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved, it is the power of God.
For it is written, "I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent."
Where is the wise person? Where is the scribe? Where is the debater of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of this world?
For since, in the wisdom of God, the world did not know God through wisdom, it pleased God through the foolishness of preaching to save those who believe.
For the Jews demand signs, and the Greeks seek wisdom;
But we preach Christ crucified, a stumbling block to the Jews and foolishness to the Greeks;
But to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ is the power of God and the wisdom of God.
Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men.
For you see your calling, brothers, that not many wise according to the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble, are called;
But God has chosen the foolish things of the world to shame the wise; and God has chosen the weak things of the world to shame the things which are mighty;
And the base things of the world, and the things which are despised, God has chosen, yes, and the things which are not, to bring to nothing the things that are;
So that no flesh may boast in His presence.
But of Him, you are in Christ Jesus, who became for us wisdom from God, and righteousness, and sanctification, and redemption;
That, as it is written, "He who glories, let him glory in the Lord."
