And the LORD said to Samuel, "How long will you mourn for Saul, since I have rejected him from reigning over Israel? Fill your horn with oil and go; I will send you to Jesse the Bethlehemite, for I have chosen a king from among his sons."
Samuel replied, "How can I go? If Saul hears of it, he will kill me." The LORD said, "Take a heifer with you and say, 'I have come to sacrifice to the LORD.'"
"Invite Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show you what you must do; you shall anoint for me the one I indicate to you."
Samuel did as the LORD commanded and went to Bethlehem. The elders of the town trembled at his arrival and asked, "Do you come in peace?"
He answered, "Peacefully; I have come to sacrifice to the LORD. Consecrate yourselves and come with me to the sacrifice." He consecrated Jesse and his sons and invited them to the sacrifice.
When they arrived, he looked at Eliab and thought, "Surely the LORD's anointed stands here before the LORD."
But the LORD said to Samuel, "Do not consider his appearance or his height, for I have rejected him. The LORD does not look at the things people look at; people look at the outward appearance, but the LORD looks at the heart."
Then Jesse called Abinadab and made him pass before Samuel, who said, "The LORD has not chosen this one either."
Jesse then made Shammah pass by, but Samuel said, "Neither has the LORD chosen this one."
Jesse made seven of his sons pass before Samuel, but Samuel said to him, "The LORD has not chosen any of these."
Samuel asked Jesse, "Are these all the sons you have?" Jesse replied, "There is still the youngest, but he is tending the sheep." Samuel said to Jesse, "Send for him; we will not sit down until he arrives."
So Jesse sent for him and brought him in. He was glowing with health and had a fine appearance and handsome features. Then the LORD said, "Rise and anoint him; this is the one."
So Samuel took the horn of oil and anointed him in the presence of his brothers, and from that day on, the Spirit of the LORD came powerfully upon David. Samuel then went to Ramah.
The Spirit of the LORD departed from Saul, and an evil spirit from the LORD tormented him.
Saul's servants said to him, "Look, an evil spirit from God is tormenting you."
"Let our lord command his servants here to search for someone who can play the lyre. When the evil spirit from God comes on you, he will play it, and you will feel better."
Saul said to his servants, "Find someone who plays well and bring him to me."
One of the servants answered, "I have seen a son of Jesse the Bethlehemite who knows how to play the lyre. He is a brave man and a warrior. He speaks well and is a fine-looking man, and the LORD is with him."
Then Saul sent messengers to Jesse and said, "Send me your son David, who is with the sheep."
Jesse took a donkey loaded with bread, a skin of wine, and a young goat and sent them with his son David to Saul.
David came to Saul and entered his service. Saul liked him very much, and David became one of his armor-bearers.
Then Saul sent word to Jesse, saying, "Allow David to remain in my service, for I am pleased with him."
Whenever the spirit from God came on Saul, David would take up his lyre and play. Then relief would come to Saul; he would feel better, and the evil spirit would leave him.
