As David passed the crest of the hill, Ziba, the servant of Mephibosheth, approached him with two donkeys saddled, carrying two hundred loaves of bread, one hundred bunches of raisins, one hundred summer fruits, and a bottle of wine.
The king asked Ziba, "What do you mean by these?" Ziba replied, "The donkeys are for the king's household to ride on; the bread and summer fruits are for the young men to eat; and the wine is for those who are faint in the wilderness to drink."
The king then inquired, "Where is your master's son?" Ziba answered, "He is staying in Jerusalem, for he said, 'Today the house of Israel will restore to me the kingdom of my father.'"
The king told Ziba, "All that belonged to Mephibosheth is now yours." Ziba humbly requested, "I beseech you, let me find favor in your sight, my lord, O king."
When King David arrived at Bahurim, a man from the house of Saul named Shimei, the son of Gera, came out cursing as he approached.
He threw stones at David and all the servants of King David, while all the people and mighty men were on his right and left.
Shimei cursed, saying, "Get out, get out, you bloody man, you worthless man!
The LORD has brought upon you all the blood of the house of Saul, in whose place you have reigned; the LORD has given the kingdom into the hand of Absalom your son. You are caught in your own mischief, for you are a bloody man."
Abishai, the son of Zeruiah, said to the king, "Why should this dead dog curse my lord the king? Let me go over and take off his head."
The king replied, "What do I have to do with you, sons of Zeruiah? Let him curse, for the LORD has told him to curse David. Who can say, 'Why have you done this?'"
David said to Abishai and all his servants, "My own son, who came from my own body, seeks my life. How much more might this Benjamite do it? Leave him alone and let him curse, for the LORD has commanded him.
Perhaps the LORD will look upon my affliction and repay me with good for his cursing today."
As David and his men continued on their way, Shimei followed along the hillside, cursing, throwing stones, and kicking up dust.
The king and all the people with him grew weary and refreshed themselves there.
Absalom and all the men of Israel arrived in Jerusalem, accompanied by Ahithophel.
When Hushai the Archite, David's friend, came to Absalom, he said, "Long live the king! Long live the king!"
Absalom asked Hushai, "Is this your loyalty to your friend? Why did you not go with your friend?"
Hushai replied, "No, but I will serve the one whom the LORD, this people, and all the men of Israel choose. I will remain with him."
He continued, "And whom should I serve? Should I not serve in the presence of his son? Just as I served in your father's presence, so will I serve in yours."
Absalom then said to Ahithophel, "Give us your counsel on what we should do."
Ahithophel advised Absalom, "Go in to your father's concubines, whom he has left to take care of the house. All Israel will hear that you have made yourself odious to your father, and the hands of all who are with you will be strengthened."
So they pitched a tent for Absalom on the roof, and he went in to his father's concubines in the sight of all Israel.
The counsel of Ahithophel in those days was regarded as if one had consulted the oracle of God; so was all the counsel of Ahithophel, both with David and with Absalom.
