The vision that Isaiah, son of Amoz, received regarding Judah and Jerusalem.  
In the last days, the mountain of the LORD's house will be established at the highest point of the mountains and exalted above the hills; all nations will stream to it.  
Many people will come and say, "Come, let us go up to the mountain of the LORD, to the house of the God of Jacob; He will teach us His ways, and we will walk in His paths, for the law will go forth from Zion, and the word of the LORD from Jerusalem."  
He will judge among the nations and rebuke many people; they will turn their swords into plowshares and their spears into pruning hooks. Nation will not take up sword against nation, nor will they learn war anymore.  
O house of Jacob, come, let us walk in the light of the LORD.  
You have forsaken your people, the house of Jacob, because they are filled with influences from the east, are soothsayers like the Philistines, and delight in the children of strangers.  
Their land is full of silver and gold, and there is no end to their treasures; their land is also filled with horses, and there is no end to their chariots.  
Their land is filled with idols; they worship the work of their own hands, what their own fingers have made.  
The common man bows down, and the great man humbles himself; therefore, do not forgive them.  
Enter into the rocks and hide in the dust, in fear of the LORD and for the glory of His majesty.  
The proud looks of man will be humbled, and the arrogance of men will be brought low; the LORD alone will be exalted in that day.  
For the day of the LORD of hosts will be upon everyone who is proud and lofty, and upon everyone who is lifted up; they will be brought low.  
It will be upon all the cedars of Lebanon, which are high and lifted up, and upon all the oaks of Bashan,  
And upon all the high mountains and upon all the hills that are lifted up,  
And upon every high tower and every fortified wall,  
And upon all the ships of Tarshish and all the beautiful vessels.  
The pride of man will be humbled, and the arrogance of men will be brought low; the LORD alone will be exalted in that day.  
He will completely abolish the idols.  
They will go into the holes of the rocks and into the caves of the earth, in fear of the LORD and for the glory of His majesty, when He arises to shake the earth terribly.  
In that day, a man will throw away his silver idols and his gold idols, which he made for himself to worship, to the moles and to the bats;  
To enter the clefts of the rocks and the tops of the rugged cliffs, in fear of the LORD and for the glory of His majesty, when He arises to shake the earth terribly.  
Stop trusting in man, whose breath is in his nostrils; for what is he to be valued?