Run to and fro through the streets of Jerusalem, and observe, and understand, and search in its open spaces, if you can find a man, if there is anyone who executes judgment, who seeks the truth; and I will pardon it.  
And even though they say, "The LORD lives," they surely swear falsely.  
O LORD, are not Your eyes upon the truth? You have struck them, but they have not grieved; You have consumed them, but they have refused to accept correction: they have made their faces harder than rock; they have refused to return.  
Therefore I said, "Surely these are poor; they are foolish: for they do not know the way of the LORD, nor the judgment of their God."  
I will go to the great men and speak to them; for they have known the way of the LORD and the judgment of their God: but these have altogether broken the yoke and burst the bonds.  
Therefore, a lion from the forest shall slay them, and a wolf of the evenings shall spoil them; a leopard shall watch over their cities: everyone who goes out from there shall be torn to pieces, because their transgressions are many, and their backslidings have increased.  
How shall I pardon you for this? Your children have forsaken Me and sworn by those that are no gods: when I had fed them to the full, they then committed adultery and assembled themselves by troops in the houses of harlots.  
They were like well-fed horses in the morning; each one neighed after his neighbor's wife.  
Shall I not punish for these things? says the LORD: and shall not My soul be avenged on such a nation as this?  
Go up upon her walls and destroy; but do not make a full end: take away her battlements, for they are not the LORD's.  
For the house of Israel and the house of Judah have dealt very treacherously against Me, says the LORD.  
They have denied the LORD and said, "It is not He; neither shall evil come upon us; neither shall we see sword nor famine."  
And the prophets shall become wind, and the word is not in them: thus shall it be done to them.  
Therefore, thus says the LORD God of hosts, "Because you speak this word, behold, I will make My words in your mouth fire, and this people wood, and it shall devour them."  
Lo, I will bring a nation upon you from far, O house of Israel, says the LORD: it is a mighty nation, it is an ancient nation, a nation whose language you do not know, nor do you understand what they say.  
Their quiver is like an open grave; they are all mighty men.  
And they shall consume your harvest and your bread, which your sons and daughters should eat; they shall consume your flocks and herds; they shall consume your vines and fig trees; they shall impoverish your fortified cities, in which you trusted, with the sword.  
Nevertheless, in those days, says the LORD, I will not make a full end with you.  
And it shall come to pass, when you say, "Why does the LORD our God do all these things to us?" then you shall answer them, "Just as you have forsaken Me and served strange gods in your land, so shall you serve strangers in a land that is not yours."  
Declare this in the house of Jacob, and publish it in Judah, saying,  
"Hear now this, O foolish people, and without understanding; who have eyes, and do not see; who have ears, and do not hear."  
Do you not fear Me? says the LORD: will you not tremble at My presence, who has placed the sand as the boundary of the sea by a perpetual decree, that it cannot pass it: and though its waves toss themselves, yet they cannot prevail; though they roar, yet they cannot pass over it?  
But this people has a revolting and rebellious heart; they have revolted and gone away.  
Neither do they say in their heart, "Let us now fear the LORD our God, who gives rain, both the former and the latter, in its season: He reserves for us the appointed weeks of the harvest."  
Your iniquities have turned away these things, and your sins have withheld good things from you.  
For among My people are found wicked men: they lie in wait, as one who sets snares; they set a trap, they catch men.  
As a cage is full of birds, so are their houses full of deceit: therefore they have become great and grown rich.  
They have grown fat, they shine: yes, they surpass the deeds of the wicked: they do not judge the cause, the cause of the fatherless, yet they prosper; and they do not judge the right of the needy.  
Shall I not punish for these things? says the LORD: shall not My soul be avenged on such a nation as this?  
A wonderful and horrible thing is committed in the land;  
The prophets prophesy falsely, and the priests rule by their means; and My people love to have it so: and what will you do in the end thereof?