A wise son listens to his father's instruction, but a scorner ignores rebuke.
A man enjoys good from the fruit of his words, but the soul of the transgressors feeds on violence.
He who guards his mouth preserves his life, but he who speaks recklessly will face destruction.
The soul of the sluggard craves and gets nothing, but the soul of the diligent is richly satisfied.
A righteous man detests lying, but a wicked man is repulsive and will face shame.
Righteousness protects those who are upright in their path, but wickedness leads sinners to ruin.
There are those who make themselves rich yet have nothing, and those who make themselves poor yet possess great wealth.
The ransom for a man's life is his riches, but the poor do not heed rebuke.
The light of the righteous brings joy, but the lamp of the wicked will be extinguished.
Only pride leads to conflict, but wisdom is found with the well-advised.
Wealth gained through vanity will diminish, but he who gathers through hard work will increase.
Hope deferred makes the heart sick, but when desire is fulfilled, it is a tree of life.
Whoever despises the word will face destruction, but he who fears the commandment will be rewarded.
The law of the wise is a fountain of life, guiding one away from the snares of death.
Good understanding brings favor, but the path of transgressors is difficult.
Every prudent man acts with knowledge, but a fool exposes his folly.
A wicked messenger falls into trouble, but a faithful ambassador brings health.
Poverty and shame come to those who refuse instruction, but he who heeds reproof will be honored.
The desire fulfilled is sweet to the soul, but it is an abomination for fools to turn away from evil.
He who walks with wise men will be wise, but a companion of fools will suffer destruction.
Evil pursues sinners, but good will be repaid to the righteous.
A good man leaves an inheritance for his grandchildren, but the wealth of the sinner is stored up for the just.
There is much food in the tillage of the poor, but some are destroyed for lack of judgment.
He who spares his rod hates his son, but he who loves him disciplines him early.
The righteous eat to the satisfaction of their souls, but the belly of the wicked will go hungry.
