When Abram was ninety-nine years old, the LORD appeared to him and said, "I am the Almighty God; walk before me and be perfect.
I will establish my covenant with you and multiply you greatly."
Abram fell on his face, and God spoke to him, saying,
"As for me, my covenant is with you, and you shall be the father of many nations.
Your name shall no longer be Abram, but Abraham, for I have made you a father of many nations.
I will make you exceedingly fruitful; nations will come from you, and kings will be among your descendants.
I will establish my covenant between you and your descendants after you throughout their generations as an everlasting covenant, to be your God and the God of your descendants.
I will give you and your descendants the land where you are a stranger, all the land of Canaan, as an everlasting possession; and I will be their God."
God said to Abraham, "You must keep my covenant, you and your descendants throughout their generations.
This is my covenant that you shall keep between me and you and your descendants: Every male among you shall be circumcised.
You shall circumcise the flesh of your foreskin, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between me and you.
Every male who is eight days old shall be circumcised among you, including those born in your household or bought with money from a foreigner, who is not your descendant.
Those born in your household and those bought with your money must be circumcised; my covenant shall be in your flesh as an everlasting covenant.
Any uncircumcised male who has not had his foreskin circumcised shall be cut off from his people; he has broken my covenant."
God said to Abraham, "As for your wife Sarai, you shall not call her name Sarai, but Sarah shall be her name.
I will bless her and give you a son by her; I will bless her, and she will be the mother of nations; kings of peoples will come from her."
Then Abraham fell on his face and laughed, saying in his heart, "Will a child be born to a man who is a hundred years old? Will Sarah, who is ninety years old, bear a child?"
Abraham said to God, "Oh, that Ishmael might live before you!"
God said, "Indeed, your wife Sarah will bear you a son, and you shall name him Isaac; I will establish my covenant with him as an everlasting covenant for his descendants after him.
As for Ishmael, I have heard you: I have blessed him and will make him fruitful and multiply him greatly; he will be the father of twelve princes, and I will make him a great nation.
But my covenant will be established with Isaac, whom Sarah will bear to you at this set time next year."
When he finished speaking with Abraham, God went up from him.
Abraham took Ishmael his son and all those born in his household or bought with his money, every male among the men of Abraham's household, and circumcised the flesh of their foreskin that very day, as God had commanded him.
Abraham was ninety-nine years old when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.
Ishmael his son was thirteen years old when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.
On that same day, Abraham and his son Ishmael were circumcised.
All the men of his household, those born in the house and those bought with money from a foreigner, were circumcised with him.
