Woe to Ariel, to Ariel, the city where David once dwelt! Add year to year; let them continue to offer sacrifices.  
Yet I will bring distress upon Ariel, and there shall be heaviness and sorrow; it shall be as Ariel to me.  
I will encamp against you all around, and lay siege to you with a mound, raising forts against you.  
You shall be brought low, speaking from the ground, your speech shall be faint from the dust; your voice shall be like that of a familiar spirit, whispering from the earth.  
Moreover, the multitude of your strangers shall be like fine dust, and the multitude of the formidable shall be like chaff that blows away; it shall happen suddenly, in an instant.  
You shall be visited by the LORD of hosts with thunder, earthquake, and great noise, with storm and tempest, and the flame of consuming fire.  
The multitude of all the nations that fight against Ariel, all who contend with her and distress her, shall be like a dream of a night vision.  
It shall be as when a hungry man dreams, and behold, he eats; but he awakens, and his soul is empty; or as when a thirsty man dreams, and behold, he drinks; but he awakens, and is faint, and his soul craves: so shall be the multitude of all the nations that fight against Mount Zion.  
Stay yourselves, and wonder; cry out, and shout: they are drunk, but not with wine; they stagger, but not with strong drink.  
For the LORD has poured out upon you the spirit of deep sleep, and has closed your eyes; the prophets and your rulers, the seers, He has covered.  
And the vision of all has become to you as the words of a sealed book, which men deliver to one who is learned, saying, "Read this, I pray you"; and he says, "I cannot, for it is sealed."  
And the book is delivered to one who is unlearned, saying, "Read this, I pray you"; and he says, "I am not learned."  
Therefore, the Lord says, "Since this people draw near to me with their mouth and honor me with their lips, but have removed their hearts far from me, and their fear toward me is taught by the precept of men:  
Behold, I will proceed to do a marvelous work among this people, even a marvelous work and a wonder; for the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the understanding of their prudent men shall be hidden.  
Woe to those who seek deep to hide their counsel from the LORD; their works are in darkness, and they say, "Who sees us? Who knows us?"  
Surely your turning of things upside down shall be regarded as the potter's clay; for shall the work say of him who made it, "He did not make me"? Or shall the thing framed say of him who framed it, "He has no understanding"?  
Is it not yet a very little while until Lebanon shall be turned into a fruitful field, and the fruitful field shall be regarded as a forest?  
And in that day, the deaf shall hear the words of the book, and the eyes of the blind shall see out of obscurity and darkness.  
The meek shall also increase their joy in the LORD, and the poor among men shall rejoice in the Holy One of Israel.  
For the terrible one is brought to nothing, and the scorner is consumed; all who watch for iniquity are cut off.  
Those who make a man an offender for a word, and lay a snare for him who reproves in the gate, and turn aside the just for a trivial matter.  
Therefore, thus says the LORD, who redeemed Abraham, concerning the house of Jacob: Jacob shall not now be ashamed, nor shall his face now grow pale.  
But when he sees his children, the work of my hands, in the midst of him, they shall sanctify my name, and sanctify the Holy One of Jacob, and shall fear the God of Israel.  
Those who erred in spirit shall come to understanding, and those who murmured shall learn doctrine.