And they began their journey from Elim, and the entire congregation of the children of Israel arrived at the wilderness of Sin, which lies between Elim and Sinai, on the fifteenth day of the second month after their departure from the land of Egypt.
And the whole congregation of the children of Israel complained against Moses and Aaron in the wilderness.
And the children of Israel said to them, Would to God we had died by the hand of the LORD in the land of Egypt, when we sat by the flesh pots and ate bread to the full; for you have brought us into this wilderness to kill this entire assembly with hunger.
Then the LORD said to Moses, Behold, I will rain down bread from heaven for you; and the people shall go out and gather a specific amount each day, that I may test them, whether they will walk in my law or not.
And it shall come to pass that on the sixth day they shall prepare what they bring in; and it shall be twice as much as they gather daily.
And Moses and Aaron said to all the children of Israel, In the evening, you shall know that the LORD has brought you out of the land of Egypt.
And in the morning, you shall see the glory of the LORD; for He hears your complaints against the LORD: and what are we, that you complain against us?
And Moses said, This shall happen when the LORD gives you in the evening flesh to eat, and in the morning bread to the full; for the LORD hears your complaints which you murmur against Him: and what are we? Your complaints are not against us, but against the LORD.
And Moses spoke to Aaron, Say to all the congregation of the children of Israel, Come near before the LORD; for He has heard your complaints.
And it came to pass, as Aaron spoke to the whole congregation of the children of Israel, that they looked toward the wilderness, and behold, the glory of the LORD appeared in the cloud.
And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
I have heard the complaints of the children of Israel: speak to them, saying, In the evening you shall eat flesh, and in the morning you shall be filled with bread; and you shall know that I am the LORD your God.
And it came to pass that in the evening the quails came up and covered the camp; and in the morning the dew lay all around the host.
And when the dew that lay was gone up, behold, upon the surface of the wilderness there lay a small round thing, as small as the hoar frost on the ground.
And when the children of Israel saw it, they said to one another, It is manna; for they did not know what it was. And Moses said to them, This is the bread which the LORD has given you to eat.
This is the thing which the LORD has commanded: Gather of it every man according to his eating, an omer for every man, according to the number of your persons; let every man take for those who are in his tents.
And the children of Israel did so, and gathered, some more, some less.
And when they measured it with an omer, he who gathered much had nothing left over, and he who gathered little had no lack; they gathered every man according to his eating.
And Moses said, Let no man leave any of it until the morning.
However, they did not listen to Moses; but some of them left part of it until the morning, and it bred worms and stank: and Moses was angry with them.
And they gathered it every morning, every man according to his eating; and when the sun grew hot, it melted.
And it came to pass that on the sixth day they gathered twice as much bread, two omers for one man: and all the rulers of the congregation came and told Moses.
And he said to them, This is what the LORD has said: Tomorrow is the rest of the holy sabbath unto the LORD; bake what you will bake today, and boil what you will boil; and that which remains over lay up for you to be kept until the morning.
And they laid it up until the morning, as Moses commanded; and it did not stink, nor were there any worms in it.
And Moses said, Eat that today; for today is a sabbath unto the LORD: today you shall not find it in the field.
Six days you shall gather it; but on the seventh day, which is the sabbath, there shall be none.
And it came to pass that some of the people went out on the seventh day to gather, and they found none.
And the LORD said to Moses, How long will you refuse to keep my commandments and my laws?
See, the LORD has given you the sabbath; therefore He gives you on the sixth day the bread of two days; let every man abide in his place, let no man go out of his place on the seventh day.
So the people rested on the seventh day.
And the house of Israel called the name of it Manna; and it was like coriander seed, white; and the taste of it was like wafers made with honey.
And Moses said, This is the thing which the LORD commands: Fill an omer of it to be kept for your generations; that they may see the bread with which I have fed you in the wilderness when I brought you out of the land of Egypt.
And Moses said to Aaron, Take a pot, and put an omer full of manna in it, and lay it up before the LORD, to be kept for your generations.
As the LORD commanded Moses, so Aaron laid it up before the Testimony, to be kept.
And the children of Israel ate manna for forty years, until they came to a land inhabited; they ate manna until they reached the borders of the land of Canaan.
Now an omer is the tenth part of an ephah.
