Moreover, when you divide the land for inheritance by lot, you shall offer an oblation to the LORD, a holy portion of the land: its length shall be twenty-five thousand reeds, and its breadth shall be ten thousand. This shall be holy in all its borders all around.
Of this, there shall be for the sanctuary five hundred in length, with five hundred in breadth, square all around; and fifty cubits all around for the suburbs.
And with this measure, you shall measure the length of twenty-five thousand and the breadth of ten thousand: in it shall be the sanctuary and the most holy place.
The holy portion of the land shall be for the priests, the ministers of the sanctuary, who come near to minister to the LORD: it shall be a place for their houses and a holy place for the sanctuary.
And the length of twenty-five thousand and the breadth of ten thousand shall also be for the Levites, the ministers of the house, for a possession of twenty chambers.
You shall appoint the possession of the city to be five thousand broad and twenty-five thousand long, opposite the oblation of the holy portion: it shall be for the whole house of Israel.
And a portion shall be for the prince on one side and on the other side of the oblation of the holy portion and of the possession of the city, before the oblation of the holy portion and before the possession of the city, from the west side westward and from the east side eastward: the length shall be opposite one of the portions, from the west border to the east border.
In the land shall be his possession in Israel: and my princes shall no longer oppress my people; the rest of the land shall be given to the house of Israel according to their tribes.
Thus says the Lord GOD: Let it be sufficient for you, O princes of Israel: remove violence and plunder, and execute judgment and justice; take away your exactions from my people, says the Lord GOD.
You shall have just balances, a just ephah, and a just bath.
The ephah and the bath shall be of one measure, so that the bath may contain the tenth part of an homer, and the ephah the tenth part of an homer: the measure shall be according to the homer.
And the shekel shall be twenty gerahs: twenty shekels, twenty-five shekels, and fifteen shekels shall be your maneh.
This is the oblation that you shall offer: the sixth part of an ephah of an homer of wheat, and you shall give the sixth part of an ephah of an homer of barley.
Concerning the ordinance of oil, you shall offer the tenth part of a bath out of the cor, which is an homer of ten baths; for ten baths are an homer.
And one lamb out of the flock, out of two hundred, from the fat pastures of Israel, for a meat offering, a burnt offering, and peace offerings, to make reconciliation for them, says the Lord GOD.
All the people of the land shall give this oblation for the prince in Israel.
And it shall be the prince's part to give burnt offerings, meat offerings, and drink offerings, during the feasts, new moons, and sabbaths, in all solemnities of the house of Israel: he shall prepare the sin offering, the meat offering, the burnt offering, and the peace offerings, to make reconciliation for the house of Israel.
Thus says the Lord GOD: In the first month, on the first day of the month, you shall take a young bullock without blemish and cleanse the sanctuary.
And the priest shall take of the blood of the sin offering and put it upon the posts of the house, upon the four corners of the settle of the altar, and upon the posts of the gate of the inner court.
And so you shall do on the seventh day of the month for everyone who errs and for him who is simple: thus shall you reconcile the house.
In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month, you shall have the Passover, a feast of seven days; unleavened bread shall be eaten.
And on that day, the prince shall prepare for himself and for all the people of the land a bullock for a sin offering.
And during the seven days of the feast, he shall prepare a burnt offering to the LORD: seven bullocks and seven rams without blemish daily for the seven days; and a kid of the goats daily for a sin offering.
And he shall prepare a meat offering of an ephah for a bullock, an ephah for a ram, and an hin of oil for an ephah.
In the seventh month, on the fifteenth day of the month, he shall do the same during the feast of the seven days, according to the sin offering, the burnt offering, the meat offering, and the oil.
