My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from helping me and from the words of my cries?  
O my God, I cry out during the day, but you do not answer; and in the night, I am not silent.  
But you are holy, O you who inhabit the praises of Israel.  
Our ancestors trusted in you; they trusted, and you delivered them.  
They cried out to you and were saved; they trusted in you and were not put to shame.  
But I am a worm and not a man; I am a reproach to humanity and despised by the people.  
All who see me mock me; they curl their lips and shake their heads, saying,  
"He trusted in the LORD; let the LORD deliver him; let him rescue him, for he delights in him."  
But you are the one who brought me out of the womb; you made me hope when I was on my mother’s breasts.  
I was cast upon you from birth; you have been my God since my mother’s womb.  
Do not be far from me, for trouble is near, and there is no one to help.  
Many bulls surround me; strong bulls of Bashan encircle me.  
They open their mouths against me like a ravening and roaring lion.  
I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint; my heart is like wax; it melts within me.  
My strength is dried up like a potsherd, and my tongue sticks to the roof of my mouth; you have brought me to the dust of death.  
For dogs surround me; a band of wicked men encircles me; they pierce my hands and my feet.  
I can count all my bones; they look and gloat over me.  
They divide my garments among them and cast lots for my clothing.  
But do not be far from me, O LORD; O my strength, come quickly to help me.  
Deliver my soul from the sword; my precious life from the power of the dog.  
Save me from the lion’s mouth; you have heard me from the horns of the wild oxen.  
I will declare your name to my brothers; in the assembly, I will praise you.  
You who fear the LORD, praise him; all you descendants of Jacob, glorify him; and stand in awe of him, all you descendants of Israel.  
For he has not despised or scorned the suffering of the afflicted; he has not hidden his face from him, but has listened to his cry for help.  
My praise will be of you in the great assembly; I will fulfill my vows in the presence of those who fear you.  
The poor will eat and be satisfied; those who seek the LORD will praise him; may your hearts live forever!  
All the ends of the earth will remember and turn to the LORD, and all the families of the nations will bow down before you.  
For the kingdom belongs to the LORD, and he rules over the nations.  
All the rich of the earth will feast and worship; all who go down to the dust will kneel before him; those who cannot keep themselves alive.  
A posterity will serve him; future generations will be told about the Lord.  
They will proclaim his righteousness to a people yet unborn— for he has done it.