Now these are the commandments, the statutes, and the judgments, which the LORD your God commanded you to teach, so that you may do them in the land you are about to possess:
That you may fear the LORD your God, to keep all his statutes and commandments, which I command you, you, your son, and your grandson, all the days of your life; and that your days may be prolonged.
Hear therefore, O Israel, and observe to do it; that it may be well with you, and that you may increase greatly, as the LORD God of your fathers has promised you, in the land that flows with milk and honey.
Hear, O Israel: The LORD our God is one LORD.
And you shall love the LORD your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your might.
And these words, which I command you this day, shall be in your heart.
And you shall teach them diligently to your children, and shall talk of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise up.
And you shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes.
And you shall write them on the doorposts of your house, and on your gates.
And it shall be, when the LORD your God has brought you into the land which he swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to give you great and goodly cities, which you did not build,
And houses full of all good things, which you did not fill, and wells dug, which you did not dig, vineyards and olive trees, which you did not plant; when you have eaten and are full;
Then beware lest you forget the LORD, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage.
You shall fear the LORD your God, and serve him, and shall swear by his name.
You shall not go after other gods, of the gods of the peoples who are around you;
(For the LORD your God is a jealous God among you) lest the anger of the LORD your God be kindled against you, and destroy you from off the face of the earth.
You shall not tempt the LORD your God, as you tempted him in Massah.
You shall diligently keep the commandments of the LORD your God, and his testimonies, and his statutes, which he has commanded you.
And you shall do what is right and good in the sight of the LORD: that it may be well with you, and that you may go in and possess the good land which the LORD swore to your fathers.
To cast out all your enemies from before you, as the LORD has spoken.
And when your son asks you in time to come, saying, What do the testimonies, and the statutes, and the judgments, which the LORD our God has commanded you mean?
Then you shall say to your son, We were Pharaoh's bondmen in Egypt; and the LORD brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand.
And the LORD showed signs and wonders, great and terrible, upon Egypt, upon Pharaoh, and upon all his household, before our eyes.
And he brought us out from there, that he might bring us in, to give us the land which he swore to our fathers.
And the LORD commanded us to do all these statutes, to fear the LORD our God, for our good always, that he might preserve us alive, as it is at this day.
And it shall be our righteousness, if we observe to do all these commandments before the LORD our God, as he has commanded us.
