And it came to pass that on one of those days, as he taught the people in the temple and preached the gospel, the chief priests and the scribes approached him along with the elders.
And they spoke to him, saying, "Tell us, by what authority do you do these things? Or who is it that gave you this authority?"
He answered and said to them, "I will also ask you one question; answer me this:
The baptism of John, was it from heaven or from men?"
They reasoned among themselves, saying, "If we say, 'From heaven,' he will ask, 'Why then did you not believe him?'
But if we say, 'From men,' all the people will stone us, for they are convinced that John was a prophet."
So they answered that they could not tell where it was from.
And Jesus said to them, "Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things."
Then he began to speak to the people this parable: "A certain man planted a vineyard, leased it to farmers, and went to a far country for a long time.
At the harvest season, he sent a servant to the farmers to collect some of the fruit of the vineyard, but the farmers beat him and sent him away empty-handed.
Again, he sent another servant, and they beat him also, treated him shamefully, and sent him away empty.
He sent a third servant, and they wounded him too and threw him out.
Then the owner of the vineyard said, 'What shall I do? I will send my beloved son; perhaps they will respect him when they see him.'
But when the farmers saw him, they reasoned among themselves, saying, 'This is the heir; come, let us kill him so that the inheritance may be ours.'
So they threw him out of the vineyard and killed him. What then will the owner of the vineyard do to them?
He will come and destroy those farmers and give the vineyard to others." When they heard this, they said, "God forbid!"
He looked at them and said, "What then is this that is written: 'The stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone'?
Whoever falls on that stone will be broken; but on whomever it falls, it will grind him to powder."
The chief priests and the scribes sought to lay hands on him that very hour, but they feared the people, for they perceived that he had spoken this parable against them.
They watched him and sent spies who pretended to be righteous, hoping to catch him in something he said so they could deliver him to the authority of the governor.
They asked him, saying, "Teacher, we know that you speak and teach rightly, and you do not show partiality but teach the way of God in truth:
Is it lawful for us to pay taxes to Caesar or not?"
But he perceived their craftiness and said to them, "Why do you test me?
Show me a denarius. Whose image and inscription are on it?" They answered, "Caesar's."
He said to them, "Render therefore to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's."
They could not catch him in his words before the people, and they marveled at his answer and held their peace.
Then some of the Sadducees, who deny that there is a resurrection, came to him and asked him,
"Saying, Teacher, Moses wrote to us that if a man's brother dies, having a wife, and he dies without children, his brother should take his wife and raise up offspring for his brother.
Now there were seven brothers. The first took a wife and died childless.
The second took her as wife, and he died childless.
Then the third took her, and in the same way, the seven died, leaving no children.
Last of all, the woman died also.
In the resurrection, therefore, whose wife will she be? For all seven had her as wife."
Jesus answered and said to them, "The children of this age marry and are given in marriage;
But those who are counted worthy to attain that age and the resurrection from the dead neither marry nor are given in marriage.
Nor can they die anymore, for they are equal to the angels and are sons of God, being sons of the resurrection.
But even Moses showed in the burning bush passage that the dead are raised, when he called the Lord the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.
For He is not the God of the dead, but of the living, for all live to Him."
Then some of the scribes answered, "Teacher, you have spoken well."
And after that, they dared not ask him any more questions.
He said to them, "How can they say that the Christ is the son of David?
For David himself says in the Book of Psalms, 'The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand,
Till I make your enemies your footstool.'
Therefore, David calls him 'Lord'; how is he then his son?"
In the hearing of all the people, he said to his disciples,
"Beware of the scribes, who desire to walk in long robes, love greetings in the marketplaces, the best seats in the synagogues, and the places of honor at feasts;
Who devour widows' houses and for a pretense make long prayers. They will receive greater condemnation."
