Behold my servant, whom I support; my chosen one, in whom my soul delights; I have placed my spirit upon him: he shall bring forth justice to the nations.
He shall not shout, nor raise his voice, nor make it heard in the streets.
A bruised reed he will not break, and a smoldering wick he will not extinguish: he shall bring forth justice in truth.
He shall not falter nor be discouraged, until he has established justice on the earth: and the coastlands shall wait for his law.
Thus says God the LORD, he who created the heavens and stretched them out; he who spread forth the earth and all that comes from it; he who gives breath to the people upon it, and spirit to those who walk therein:
I the LORD have called you in righteousness, and will hold your hand, and will keep you, and give you as a covenant for the people, a light for the nations;
To open the eyes of the blind, to bring out the prisoners from the prison, and those who sit in darkness out of the prison house.
I am the LORD: that is my name: and my glory I will not give to another, nor my praise to carved images.
Behold, the former things have come to pass, and new things I declare: before they spring forth I tell you of them.
Sing to the LORD a new song, and his praise from the ends of the earth, you who go down to the sea, and all that is in it; the coastlands, and their inhabitants.
Let the wilderness and its cities lift up their voice, the villages that Kedar inhabits: let the inhabitants of the rock sing, let them shout from the tops of the mountains.
Let them give glory to the LORD, and declare his praise in the islands.
The LORD shall go forth like a mighty warrior, he shall stir up zeal like a man of war: he shall shout, yes, roar; he shall prevail against his enemies.
I have long held my peace; I have been still and restrained myself: now I will cry out like a woman in labor; I will destroy and devour at once.
I will make waste the mountains and hills, and dry up all their vegetation; I will turn rivers into islands, and dry up the pools.
And I will lead the blind by a way they do not know; I will guide them in paths they have not known: I will make darkness light before them, and crooked things straight. These things I will do for them, and not forsake them.
They shall be turned back, they shall be greatly ashamed, who trust in carved images, who say to the molten images, You are our gods.
Hear, you deaf; and look, you blind, that you may see.
Who is blind but my servant? or deaf, as my messenger whom I sent? who is blind like the perfect one, blind like the servant of the LORD?
Seeing many things, but you do not observe; opening the ears, but he does not hear.
The LORD is well pleased for his righteousness' sake; he will magnify the law and make it honorable.
But this is a people robbed and spoiled; they are all snared in holes, and hidden in prison houses: they are prey, and none delivers; for a spoil, and none says, Restore.
Who among you will listen to this? who will pay attention and hear for the time to come?
Who gave Jacob for a spoil, and Israel to the robbers? did not the LORD, against whom we have sinned? for they would not walk in his ways, nor were they obedient to his law.
Therefore he has poured upon him the fury of his anger, and the strength of battle: and it has set him on fire all around, yet he did not know; and it burned him, yet he did not take it to heart.
