And Moses, along with the elders of Israel, instructed the people, saying, "Observe all the commandments that I command you today."  
And it shall be on the day when you cross over the Jordan into the land that the LORD your God is giving you, that you shall set up large stones and coat them with plaster.  
And you shall write on them all the words of this law when you have crossed over, so that you may enter the land which the LORD your God is giving you, a land flowing with milk and honey, as the LORD God of your fathers has promised you.  
Therefore, when you have crossed over the Jordan, you shall set up these stones, which I command you today, on Mount Ebal, and you shall coat them with plaster.  
And there you shall build an altar to the LORD your God, an altar made of stones; you shall not use any iron tool on them.  
You shall build the altar of the LORD your God with whole stones, and you shall offer burnt offerings on it to the LORD your God.  
And you shall offer peace offerings, and you shall eat there and rejoice before the LORD your God.  
And you shall write on the stones all the words of this law very clearly.  
And Moses and the priests, the Levites, spoke to all Israel, saying, "Take heed and listen, O Israel; today you have become the people of the LORD your God."  
Therefore, you shall obey the voice of the LORD your God and do His commandments and His statutes, which I command you today.  
And Moses charged the people on that same day, saying,  
"These shall stand on Mount Gerizim to bless the people when you have crossed over the Jordan: Simeon, Levi, Judah, Issachar, Joseph, and Benjamin.  
And these shall stand on Mount Ebal to pronounce curses: Reuben, Gad, Asher, Zebulun, Dan, and Naphtali.  
And the Levites shall speak and say to all the men of Israel with a loud voice,  
'Cursed is the man who makes any graven or molten image, an abomination to the LORD, the work of the hands of the craftsman, and puts it in a secret place.' And all the people shall respond and say, 'Amen.'  
'Cursed is he who dishonors his father or mother.' And all the people shall say, 'Amen.'  
'Cursed is he who removes his neighbor's landmark.' And all the people shall say, 'Amen.'  
'Cursed is he who causes the blind to wander off the path.' And all the people shall say, 'Amen.'  
'Cursed is he who perverts the judgment of the stranger, the fatherless, and the widow.' And all the people shall say, 'Amen.'  
'Cursed is he who lies with his father's wife, for he uncovers his father's nakedness.' And all the people shall say, 'Amen.'  
'Cursed is he who lies with any kind of beast.' And all the people shall say, 'Amen.'  
'Cursed is he who lies with his sister, the daughter of his father or the daughter of his mother.' And all the people shall say, 'Amen.'  
'Cursed is he who lies with his mother-in-law.' And all the people shall say, 'Amen.'  
'Cursed is he who strikes his neighbor secretly.' And all the people shall say, 'Amen.'  
'Cursed is he who takes a bribe to slay an innocent person.' And all the people shall say, 'Amen.'  
'Cursed is he who does not confirm all the words of this law to do them.' And all the people shall say, 'Amen.'  