Come down and sit in the dust, O virgin daughter of Babylon; sit on the ground, for there is no throne, O daughter of the Chaldeans. You shall no longer be called tender and delicate.
Take the millstones and grind the meal; uncover your hair, bare your legs, expose your thighs, and cross over the rivers.
Your nakedness will be revealed, and your shame will be seen. I will take vengeance, and I will not confront you as a man.
As for our Redeemer, the LORD of hosts is His name, the Holy One of Israel.
Sit in silence and enter into darkness, O daughter of the Chaldeans, for you shall no longer be called the lady of kingdoms.
I was angry with my people; I have defiled my inheritance and given them into your hand. You showed them no mercy; you laid a heavy yoke upon the aged.
And you said, "I shall be a lady forever," so you did not take these things to heart, nor did you remember the end of it.
Therefore, hear now this, you who are given to pleasures, who dwell carelessly, and say in your heart, "I am, and there is none else beside me; I shall not sit as a widow, nor shall I know the loss of children."
But these two things will come upon you in a moment, in one day: the loss of children and widowhood. They will come upon you in their fullness because of the multitude of your sorceries and the great abundance of your enchantments.
For you have trusted in your wickedness; you have said, "No one sees me." Your wisdom and knowledge have perverted you, and you have said in your heart, "I am, and there is none else beside me."
Therefore, evil will come upon you, and you will not know from where it arises. Mischief will fall upon you, and you will not be able to avert it. Desolation will come upon you suddenly, and you will not know.
Stand now with your enchantments and the multitude of your sorceries, in which you have labored from your youth. Perhaps you will be able to profit; perhaps you may prevail.
You are wearied by the multitude of your counsels. Let now the astrologers, the stargazers, and the monthly prognosticators stand up and save you from the things that will come upon you.
Behold, they will be like stubble; the fire will consume them. They will not be able to deliver themselves from the power of the flame; there will be no coal to warm at, nor fire to sit before.
Thus shall they be to you, with whom you have labored, even your merchants from your youth. Each will wander to his own quarter; none will save you.
