The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD was as follows:
"Listen to the words of this covenant, and speak to the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
And you shall say to them, 'Thus says the LORD God of Israel: Cursed is the man who does not obey the words of this covenant,
Which I commanded your ancestors on the day I brought them out of the land of Egypt, from the iron furnace, saying, "Obey my voice and do all that I command you; then you shall be my people, and I will be your God."
This is so that I may fulfill the oath I swore to your ancestors, to give them a land flowing with milk and honey, as it is today.' Then I answered, 'Amen, O LORD.'
Then the LORD said to me, 'Proclaim all these words in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem, saying, "Listen to the words of this covenant and do them."
For I earnestly warned your ancestors on the day I brought them out of the land of Egypt, even to this day, rising early and warning them, saying, "Obey my voice."
Yet they did not obey or incline their ear, but each walked in the stubbornness of their evil hearts; therefore, I will bring upon them all the words of this covenant, which I commanded them to do, but they did not.'
And the LORD said to me, 'A conspiracy is found among the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem.
They have turned back to the iniquities of their forefathers, who refused to hear my words; they have gone after other gods to serve them. The house of Israel and the house of Judah have broken my covenant that I made with their ancestors.
Therefore, thus says the LORD: Behold, I will bring disaster upon them, from which they will not be able to escape; and though they cry out to me, I will not listen to them.
Then the cities of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem will go and cry out to the gods to whom they offer incense, but they will not save them at all in their time of trouble.
For according to the number of your cities are your gods, O Judah; and according to the number of the streets of Jerusalem have you set up altars to that shameful thing, even altars to burn incense to Baal.
Therefore, do not pray for this people, nor lift up a cry or prayer for them, for I will not hear them in the time they cry out to me for their trouble.
What does my beloved have to do in my house, seeing she has committed lewdness with many, and the holy flesh has passed from you? When you do evil, then you rejoice.
The LORD called your name, 'A green olive tree, beautiful and of good fruit.' With the noise of a great tumult, he has kindled fire upon it, and its branches are broken.
For the LORD of hosts, who planted you, has pronounced evil against you because of the evil of the house of Israel and the house of Judah, which they have done to provoke me to anger by offering incense to Baal.
And the LORD has given me knowledge of it, and I know it; then you showed me their deeds.
But I was like a lamb or an ox that is brought to the slaughter; and I did not know that they had devised plans against me, saying, "Let us destroy the tree with its fruit, and cut him off from the land of the living, that his name may be no more remembered."
But, O LORD of hosts, who judges righteously, who tests the heart and the mind, let me see your vengeance upon them, for to you I have revealed my cause.
Therefore, thus says the LORD concerning the men of Anathoth, who seek your life, saying, "Do not prophesy in the name of the LORD, or you will die by our hand."
Therefore, thus says the LORD of hosts: Behold, I will punish them; the young men shall die by the sword, their sons and their daughters shall die by famine.
And there shall be no remnant of them, for I will bring disaster upon the men of Anathoth in the year of their visitation."
