And Balaam said to Balak, "Build me seven altars here, and prepare seven oxen and seven rams for me."
Balak complied with Balaam's request; he and Balaam offered a bullock and a ram on each altar.
Balaam instructed Balak, "Stand by your burnt offering while I go; perhaps the LORD will come to meet me. Whatever He shows me, I will tell you." So he went to a high place.
God met Balaam and said to him, "I have prepared seven altars and offered a bullock and a ram on each one."
The LORD put a word in Balaam's mouth and said, "Return to Balak and speak this."
Balaam returned to Balak, who was standing by his burnt sacrifice, along with all the princes of Moab.
Balaam took up his parable and said, "Balak, king of Moab, has brought me from Aram, from the mountains of the east, saying, 'Come, curse Jacob for me, and come, defy Israel.'"
"How can I curse whom God has not cursed? How can I defy whom the LORD has not defied?"
"From the top of the rocks, I see him; from the hills, I behold him: behold, the people shall dwell alone and not be reckoned among the nations."
"Who can count the dust of Jacob or the number of the fourth part of Israel? Let me die the death of the righteous, and let my end be like his!"
Balak said to Balaam, "What have you done to me? I brought you to curse my enemies, and behold, you have blessed them altogether."
Balaam replied, "Must I not take care to speak what the LORD has put in my mouth?"
Balak said to him, "Come, please, with me to another place where you may see them; you will see only the farthest part of them and not all of them. Curse them for me from there."
He brought him to the field of Zophim, to the top of Pisgah, and built seven altars, offering a bullock and a ram on each altar.
He said to Balak, "Stand here by your burnt offering while I meet the LORD yonder."
The LORD met Balaam, put a word in his mouth, and said, "Go again to Balak and say this."
When he came to Balak, he found him standing by his burnt offering with the princes of Moab. Balak asked him, "What has the LORD spoken?"
Balaam took up his parable and said, "Rise up, Balak, and hear; listen to me, son of Zippor."
"God is not a man that He should lie, nor a son of man that He should repent. Has He said, and will He not do it? Or has He spoken, and will He not make it good?"
"Behold, I have received a commandment to bless; He has blessed, and I cannot reverse it."
"He has not observed iniquity in Jacob, nor has He seen wickedness in Israel. The LORD his God is with him, and the shout of a king is among them."
"God brought them out of Egypt; He has the strength of a wild ox."
"Surely there is no enchantment against Jacob, nor is there any divination against Israel. At this time, it shall be said of Jacob and Israel, 'What has God done!'"
"Behold, the people shall rise up like a great lion and lift themselves like a young lion; they shall not lie down until they eat the prey and drink the blood of the slain."
Balak said to Balaam, "Neither curse them at all nor bless them at all."
But Balaam answered Balak, "Did I not tell you, saying, 'All that the LORD speaks, that I must do'?"
Balak said to Balaam, "Come, please, I will take you to another place; perhaps it will please God that you may curse them for me from there."
Balak brought Balaam to the top of Peor, which overlooks Jeshimon.
Balaam said to Balak, "Build me seven altars here and prepare seven bullocks and seven rams for me."
Balak did as Balaam requested and offered a bullock and a ram on each altar.
