And it shall come to pass, when all these things have come upon you, the blessings and the curses that I have set before you, and you shall remember them among all the nations where the LORD your God has driven you,  
And you shall return to the LORD your God, and you shall obey His voice according to all that I command you this day, you and your children, with all your heart and with all your soul;  
Then the LORD your God will restore your fortunes and have compassion on you, and He will gather you from all the nations where the LORD your God has scattered you.  
If any of you are driven out to the farthest parts of heaven, from there the LORD your God will gather you, and from there He will bring you back;  
And the LORD your God will bring you into the land that your fathers possessed, and you shall possess it; and He will do good to you and multiply you more than your fathers.  
And the LORD your God will circumcise your heart and the heart of your descendants, to love the LORD your God with all your heart and with all your soul, that you may live.  
And the LORD your God will put all these curses upon your enemies and on those who hate you, who persecuted you.  
And you shall return and obey the voice of the LORD, and do all His commandments which I command you this day.  
And the LORD your God will make you abundant in every work of your hand, in the fruit of your body, in the fruit of your cattle, and in the fruit of your land, for good; for the LORD will again rejoice over you for good, as He rejoiced over your fathers:  
If you will listen to the voice of the LORD your God, to keep His commandments and His statutes which are written in this book of the law, and if you turn to the LORD your God with all your heart and with all your soul.  
For this commandment which I command you this day is not hidden from you, nor is it far off.  
It is not in heaven, that you should say, Who will go up for us to heaven and bring it to us, that we may hear it and do it?  
Neither is it beyond the sea, that you should say, Who will go over the sea for us and bring it to us, that we may hear it and do it?  
But the word is very near you, in your mouth and in your heart, that you may do it.  
See, I have set before you this day life and good, and death and evil;  
In that I command you this day to love the LORD your God, to walk in His ways, and to keep His commandments and His statutes and His judgments, that you may live and multiply; and the LORD your God shall bless you in the land where you go to possess it.  
But if your heart turns away, so that you will not hear, but are drawn away and worship other gods and serve them;  
I declare to you this day that you shall surely perish, and that you shall not prolong your days upon the land where you cross over the Jordan to go to possess it.  
I call heaven and earth to witness against you this day, that I have set before you life and death, blessing and cursing; therefore choose life, that both you and your descendants may live:  
That you may love the LORD your God, that you may obey His voice, and that you may cling to Him; for He is your life and the length of your days, that you may dwell in the land which the LORD swore to your fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to give them.