Say to your brethren, Ammi; and to your sisters, Ruhamah.
Plead with your mother, plead: for she is neither my wife nor am I her husband. Let her therefore remove her whoredoms from her sight and her adulteries from between her breasts.
Lest I strip her naked, as on the day she was born, and make her like a wilderness, a dry land, and slay her with thirst.
And I will not show mercy to her children, for they are the children of whoredoms.
For their mother has acted shamefully; she who conceived them said, "I will go after my lovers, who provide my bread, my water, my wool, my flax, my oil, and my drink."
Therefore, behold, I will block her way with thorns and build a wall so that she cannot find her paths.
She will pursue her lovers but will not catch them; she will seek them but will not find them. Then she will say, "I will go back to my first husband, for it was better for me then than now."
For she did not realize that I gave her grain, wine, and oil, and multiplied her silver and gold, which they used for Baal.
Therefore, I will return and take away my grain in its time and my wine in its season, and I will recover my wool and my flax that were given to cover her nakedness.
And now I will expose her lewdness in the sight of her lovers, and no one will rescue her from my hand.
I will also cause all her joy to cease, her feast days, her new moons, her sabbaths, and all her solemn assemblies.
I will destroy her vines and her fig trees, of which she said, "These are my rewards that my lovers have given me." I will make them a forest, and the beasts of the field will eat them.
I will punish her for the days of Baalim, when she burned incense to them, adorned herself with earrings and jewels, went after her lovers, and forgot me, says the LORD.
Therefore, behold, I will entice her, lead her into the wilderness, and speak tenderly to her.
I will give her her vineyards from there, and the valley of Achor as a door of hope. She will sing there, as in the days of her youth, and as on the day she came up out of the land of Egypt.
And it shall be in that day, says the LORD, that you will call me Ishi, and you will no longer call me Baali.
For I will remove the names of Baalim from her mouth, and they will no longer be remembered by their name.
In that day, I will make a covenant for them with the beasts of the field, the birds of the air, and the creeping things of the ground. I will break the bow, the sword, and the battle from the earth, and I will make them lie down safely.
I will betroth you to me forever; yes, I will betroth you to me in righteousness, justice, lovingkindness, and mercy.
I will betroth you to me in faithfulness, and you will know the LORD.
It shall come to pass in that day, says the LORD, that I will hear the heavens, and they will hear the earth;
And the earth will hear the grain, the wine, and the oil; and they will hear Jezreel.
I will sow her for myself in the land; I will have mercy on her who had not obtained mercy; and I will say to those who were not my people, "You are my people"; and they will say, "You are my God."
