Moreover, the Spirit lifted me up and brought me to the east gate of the LORD's house, which faces eastward. Behold, at the door of the gate stood twenty-five men, among whom I saw Jaazaniah the son of Azur and Pelatiah the son of Benaiah, princes of the people.
Then He said to me, "Son of man, these are the men who devise mischief and give wicked counsel in this city.
They say, 'It is not near; let us build houses. This city is the caldron, and we are the flesh.'
Therefore, prophesy against them; prophesy, O son of man."
And the Spirit of the LORD fell upon me and said to me, "Speak; thus says the LORD: You have said, O house of Israel, for I know the thoughts that come into your mind, every one of them.
You have multiplied your slain in this city and filled its streets with the slain.
Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD: Your slain whom you have laid in the midst of it, they are the flesh, and this city is the caldron; but I will bring you out from the midst of it.
You have feared the sword, and I will bring a sword upon you, says the Lord GOD.
I will bring you out from the midst of it and deliver you into the hands of strangers, and I will execute judgments among you.
You shall fall by the sword; I will judge you at the border of Israel, and you shall know that I am the LORD.
This city shall not be your caldron, nor shall you be the flesh in the midst of it; but I will judge you at the border of Israel.
And you shall know that I am the LORD, for you have not walked in My statutes, nor executed My judgments, but have acted according to the customs of the heathen around you.
And it came to pass, when I prophesied, that Pelatiah the son of Benaiah died. Then I fell on my face, cried out with a loud voice, and said, "Ah, Lord GOD! Will You make a full end of the remnant of Israel?"
Again, the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
"Son of man, your brethren, even your brethren, the men of your kindred, and all the house of Israel, are those to whom the inhabitants of Jerusalem have said, 'Get far from the LORD; to us this land is given in possession.'
Therefore say, thus says the Lord GOD: Although I have cast them far off among the nations and scattered them among the countries, yet I will be to them as a little sanctuary in the countries where they shall come.
Therefore say, thus says the Lord GOD: I will gather you from the peoples and assemble you out of the countries where you have been scattered, and I will give you the land of Israel.
And they shall come there and remove all its detestable things and all its abominations from it.
I will give them one heart and put a new spirit within you; I will take the stony heart out of their flesh and give them a heart of flesh,
that they may walk in My statutes, keep My ordinances, and do them. They shall be My people, and I will be their God.
But as for those whose hearts walk after the heart of their detestable things and their abominations, I will recompense their way upon their own heads, says the Lord GOD.
Then the cherubim lifted up their wings, and the wheels beside them; and the glory of the God of Israel was over them above.
The glory of the LORD went up from the midst of the city and stood on the mountain which is on the east side of the city.
Afterward, the Spirit took me up and brought me in a vision by the Spirit of God to Chaldea, to those of the captivity. So the vision that I had seen went up from me.
Then I spoke to those of the captivity all the things that the LORD had shown me.
