And these are the countries that the children of Israel inherited in the land of Canaan, which Eleazar the priest, Joshua the son of Nun, and the heads of the fathers of the tribes of the children of Israel distributed as their inheritance.
By lot was their inheritance, as the LORD commanded through Moses, for the nine tribes and the half tribe.
For Moses had given the inheritance of two tribes and a half tribe on the other side of the Jordan: but to the Levites, he gave no inheritance among them.
For the children of Joseph were two tribes, Manasseh and Ephraim: therefore, they gave no part to the Levites in the land, except for cities to dwell in, with their suburbs for their cattle and possessions.
As the LORD commanded Moses, so the children of Israel did, and they divided the land.
Then the children of Judah came to Joshua in Gilgal, and Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenezite said to him, "You know the thing that the LORD said to Moses the man of God concerning you and me in Kadeshbarnea."
I was forty years old when Moses the servant of the LORD sent me from Kadeshbarnea to spy out the land; and I brought him word again as it was in my heart.
Nevertheless, my brethren who went up with me made the heart of the people melt: but I wholly followed the LORD my God.
And Moses swore on that day, saying, "Surely the land whereon your feet have trodden shall be your inheritance, and that of your children forever, because you have wholly followed the LORD my God."
And now, behold, the LORD has kept me alive, as He said, these forty-five years, even since the LORD spoke this word to Moses while the children of Israel wandered in the wilderness: and now, lo, I am this day eighty-five years old.
As yet I am as strong this day as I was on the day that Moses sent me: as my strength was then, so is my strength now, for war, both to go out and to come in.
Now therefore give me this mountain, of which the LORD spoke in that day; for you heard in that day how the Anakims were there, and that the cities were great and fortified: if the LORD will be with me, then I shall be able to drive them out, as the LORD said.
And Joshua blessed him and gave Caleb the son of Jephunneh Hebron for an inheritance.
Hebron therefore became the inheritance of Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenezite to this day, because he wholly followed the LORD God of Israel.
And the name of Hebron was formerly Kirjatharba; Arba was a great man among the Anakims. And the land had rest from war.
