And I witnessed as the Lamb opened one of the seals, and I heard, as if it were the sound of thunder, one of the four living creatures saying, "Come and see."  
And I looked, and behold, a white horse: and he who sat on it had a bow; and a crown was given to him: and he went forth conquering and to conquer.  
And when he opened the second seal, I heard the second living creature say, "Come and see."  
And there went out another horse that was red: and power was given to him who sat on it to take peace from the earth, so that people should kill one another; and a great sword was given to him.  
And when he opened the third seal, I heard the third living creature say, "Come and see." And I looked, and behold, a black horse; and he who sat on it had a pair of scales in his hand.  
And I heard a voice in the midst of the four living creatures say, "A measure of wheat for a penny, and three measures of barley for a penny; and do not harm the oil and the wine."  
And when he opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth living creature say, "Come and see."  
And I looked, and behold, a pale horse: and the name of him who sat on it was Death, and Hades followed with him. And power was given to them over a fourth of the earth, to kill with sword, with hunger, with death, and with the beasts of the earth.  
And when he opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of those who had been slain for the word of God and for the testimony they held.  
And they cried out with a loud voice, saying, "How long, O Lord, holy and true, until you judge and avenge our blood on those who dwell on the earth?"  
And white robes were given to each of them; and it was said to them that they should rest a little longer, until their fellow servants and their brethren, who would be killed as they were, should be fulfilled.  
And I looked when he opened the sixth seal, and behold, there was a great earthquake; and the sun became black as sackcloth made of hair, and the moon became like blood;  
And the stars of heaven fell to the earth, as a fig tree drops its unripe figs when shaken by a mighty wind.  
And the sky receded like a scroll when it is rolled up; and every mountain and island was moved out of its place.  
And the kings of the earth, the great men, the rich men, the chief captains, the mighty men, and every bondman, and every free man, hid themselves in the caves and among the rocks of the mountains;  
And they said to the mountains and rocks, "Fall on us, and hide us from the face of him who sits on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb;  
For the great day of his wrath has come, and who is able to stand?"