Send the lamb to the ruler of the land, from Sela to the wilderness, to the mount of the daughter of Zion.  
For it shall be that, like a wandering bird cast out of its nest, so the daughters of Moab shall be at the fords of Arnon.  
Take counsel, execute judgment; make your shadow like the night in the midst of the noonday; hide the outcasts; do not betray those who wander.  
Let my outcasts dwell with you, Moab; be a refuge for them from the face of the spoiler: for the extortioner has come to an end, the spoiler ceases, and the oppressors are gone from the land.  
And in mercy, the throne shall be established; he shall sit upon it in truth in the tabernacle of David, judging, seeking judgment, and hastening righteousness.  
We have heard of the pride of Moab; he is very proud, even of his haughtiness, pride, and wrath; but his lies shall not be so.  
Therefore, Moab shall howl for Moab; everyone shall howl; for the foundations of Kirhareseth shall you mourn; surely they are stricken.  
For the fields of Heshbon languish, and the vine of Sibmah; the lords of the heathen have broken down its principal plants; they have come even to Jazer, wandering through the wilderness; her branches are stretched out, they have gone over the sea.  
Therefore, I will bewail with the weeping of Jazer the vine of Sibmah; I will water you with my tears, O Heshbon and Elealeh; for the shouting for your summer fruits and harvest has fallen.  
And gladness is taken away, and joy from the plentiful field; in the vineyards, there shall be no singing, nor shouting; the treaders shall tread out no wine in their presses; I have made their vintage shouting cease.  
Therefore, my heart shall sound like a harp for Moab, and my inward parts for Kirharesh.  
And it shall come to pass, when it is seen that Moab is weary on the high place, he shall come to his sanctuary to pray; but he shall not prevail.  
This is the word that the LORD has spoken concerning Moab since that time.  
But now the LORD has spoken, saying, Within three years, like the years of a hired worker, the glory of Moab shall be despised, with all that great multitude; and the remnant shall be very small and feeble.