And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,  
"Command the children of Israel, and tell them, 'My offering, and my bread for my sacrifices made by fire, for a sweet aroma to me, shall you observe to offer to me in their due season.'  
And you shall say to them, 'This is the offering made by fire that you shall present to the LORD: two lambs of the first year without blemish, day by day, for a continual burnt offering.'  
You shall offer one lamb in the morning, and the other lamb you shall offer at evening;  
And a tenth part of an ephah of flour for a grain offering, mixed with a fourth part of an hin of beaten oil.  
This is a continual burnt offering, which was ordained on Mount Sinai for a sweet aroma, a sacrifice made by fire to the LORD.  
And the drink offering for each lamb shall be a fourth part of an hin: in the holy place, you shall pour out strong wine to the LORD as a drink offering.  
And the other lamb you shall offer at evening; as the grain offering of the morning, and its drink offering, you shall offer it, a sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet aroma to the LORD.  
And on the Sabbath day, you shall offer two lambs of the first year without blemish, and two-tenths of an ephah of flour for a grain offering, mixed with oil, and its drink offering:  
This is the burnt offering for every Sabbath, in addition to the continual burnt offering and its drink offering.  
At the beginning of your months, you shall offer a burnt offering to the LORD: two young bullocks, one ram, and seven lambs of the first year without blemish;  
And three-tenths of an ephah of flour for a grain offering, mixed with oil, for one bullock; and two-tenths of an ephah of flour for a grain offering, mixed with oil, for one ram;  
And a tenth of an ephah of flour mixed with oil for a grain offering for each lamb; for a burnt offering of a sweet aroma, a sacrifice made by fire to the LORD.  
And their drink offerings shall be half an hin of wine for a bullock, a third of an hin for a ram, and a fourth of an hin for a lamb: this is the burnt offering for every month throughout the year.  
And one kid of the goats for a sin offering to the LORD shall be offered, in addition to the continual burnt offering and its drink offering.  
On the fourteenth day of the first month is the Passover of the LORD.  
On the fifteenth day of this month is the feast: seven days shall unleavened bread be eaten.  
On the first day, there shall be a holy convocation; you shall do no work of any kind on that day:  
But you shall offer a sacrifice made by fire for a burnt offering to the LORD: two young bullocks, one ram, and seven lambs of the first year; they shall be without blemish for you.  
And their grain offering shall be of flour mixed with oil: three-tenths of an ephah you shall offer for a bullock, and two-tenths for a ram;  
A tenth of an ephah you shall offer for each lamb, throughout the seven lambs;  
And one goat for a sin offering, to make atonement for you.  
You shall offer these in addition to the burnt offering in the morning, which is for a continual burnt offering.  
In this manner, you shall offer daily, throughout the seven days, the meat of the sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet aroma to the LORD: it shall be offered alongside the continual burnt offering and its drink offering.  
And on the seventh day, you shall have a holy convocation; you shall do no work of any kind.  
Also, on the day of the firstfruits, when you bring a new grain offering to the LORD, after your weeks are complete, you shall have a holy convocation; you shall do no work of any kind:  
But you shall offer the burnt offering for a sweet aroma to the LORD: two young bullocks, one ram, and seven lambs of the first year;  
And their grain offering of flour mixed with oil, three-tenths for one bullock, two-tenths for one ram,  
A tenth for each lamb, throughout the seven lambs;  
And one kid of the goats, to make atonement for you.  
You shall offer them alongside the continual burnt offering and its grain offering (they shall be without blemish for you) and their drink offerings.