Now the word of the LORD came to Jonah, the son of Amittai, saying,
"Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and proclaim against it; for their wickedness has come up before me."
But Jonah rose to flee to Tarshish from the presence of the LORD, and went down to Joppa; there he found a ship going to Tarshish. He paid the fare and went down into it, to travel with them to Tarshish, away from the presence of the LORD.
But the LORD sent a great wind into the sea, and there was a mighty tempest, so that the ship was in danger of breaking apart.
Then the sailors were afraid, and each cried out to his god, throwing the cargo that was in the ship into the sea to lighten the load. But Jonah had gone down into the hold of the ship and was fast asleep.
So the shipmaster approached him and said, "What do you mean, O sleeper? Arise, call upon your God; perhaps your God will consider us, so that we do not perish."
And they said to one another, "Come, let us cast lots to find out on whose account this calamity has come upon us." So they cast lots, and the lot fell on Jonah.
Then they said to him, "Tell us, we pray, for whose account this calamity has come upon us. What is your occupation? Where do you come from? What is your country? Of what people are you?"
And he said to them, "I am a Hebrew, and I fear the LORD, the God of heaven, who made the sea and the dry land."
Then the men were exceedingly afraid and said to him, "What have you done?" For the men knew that he was fleeing from the presence of the LORD, because he had told them.
Then they asked him, "What shall we do to you, that the sea may become calm for us?" For the sea was growing more tempestuous.
He said to them, "Pick me up and throw me into the sea; then the sea will become calm for you, for I know that it is because of me that this great tempest has come upon you."
Nevertheless, the men rowed hard to bring the ship to land, but they could not, for the sea was growing more tempestuous against them.
Therefore, they cried out to the LORD, saying, "We beseech you, O LORD, do not let us perish for this man's life, and do not lay upon us innocent blood; for you, O LORD, have done as it pleased you."
So they picked up Jonah and threw him into the sea, and the sea ceased from its raging.
Then the men feared the LORD greatly, and they offered a sacrifice to the LORD and made vows.
Now the LORD had prepared a great fish to swallow Jonah, and Jonah was in the belly of the fish for three days and three nights.
