When Mordecai saw all that had transpired, he tore his clothes, donned sackcloth and ashes, and went out into the heart of the city, crying out with a loud and bitter lament.
He even approached the king's gate, for no one was permitted to enter the king's gate dressed in sackcloth.
In every province, wherever the king's command and decree reached, there was great mourning among the Jews, along with fasting, weeping, and wailing; many lay in sackcloth and ashes.
Esther's maids and her attendants came and informed her of this. The queen was deeply distressed; she sent garments to clothe Mordecai and to remove his sackcloth from him, but he refused to accept them.
Esther then summoned Hatach, one of the king's chamberlains whom he had appointed to serve her, and instructed him to go to Mordecai to find out what was happening and why.
Hatach went out to Mordecai in the city square, which was in front of the king's gate.
Mordecai explained everything that had happened to him, including the amount of money that Haman had promised to pay into the king's treasuries to annihilate the Jews.
He also provided Hatach with a copy of the decree issued in Shushan to destroy the Jews, to show it to Esther, to inform her, and to urge her to approach the king to plead for her people.
Hatach returned and relayed Mordecai's words to Esther.
Once again, Esther spoke to Hatach and instructed him to convey a message to Mordecai:
"All the king's servants and the people of the king's provinces know that if any man or woman approaches the king in the inner court without being summoned, there is but one law: they shall be put to death, unless the king extends the golden scepter to them, allowing them to live. But I have not been called to approach the king for the past thirty days."
They reported Esther's words back to Mordecai.
Then Mordecai instructed them to reply to Esther, "Do not think that you will escape in the king's palace any more than all the other Jews.
For if you remain silent at this time, relief and deliverance for the Jews will arise from another place, but you and your father's family will perish. And who knows but that you have come to your royal position for such a time as this?"
Esther then sent this response to Mordecai:
"Go, gather all the Jews who are in Shushan and fast for me. Do not eat or drink for three days, night or day. I and my maids will fast as you do. When this is done, I will go to the king, even though it is against the law; and if I perish, I perish."
So Mordecai went away and did everything Esther had instructed him to do.
