In the eighteenth year of King Jeroboam, son of Nebat, Abijam began to reign over Judah.
He reigned for three years in Jerusalem, and his mother's name was Maachah, the daughter of Abishalom.
He followed all the sins of his father, which he had committed before him; his heart was not fully devoted to the LORD his God, as the heart of David, his father, had been.
Nevertheless, for the sake of David, the LORD his God gave him a lamp in Jerusalem, to establish his son after him and to secure Jerusalem.
This was because David did what was right in the eyes of the LORD and did not turn aside from anything He commanded him all the days of his life, except in the matter of Uriah the Hittite.
There was continual war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam throughout his reign.
Now, the rest of the acts of Abijam and all that he did are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? There was also war between Abijam and Jeroboam.
Abijam rested with his ancestors and was buried in the city of David; his son Asa succeeded him as king.
In the twentieth year of Jeroboam, king of Israel, Asa began to reign over Judah.
He reigned for forty-one years in Jerusalem, and his mother's name was Maachah, the daughter of Abishalom.
Asa did what was right in the eyes of the LORD, as his father David had done.
He removed the male shrine prostitutes from the land and got rid of all the idols his ancestors had made.
He even deposed his mother Maachah from her position as queen mother because she had made a repulsive idol for Asherah; Asa cut down her idol and burned it in the Kidron Valley.
However, the high places were not removed; yet Asa's heart was fully devoted to the LORD all his days.
He brought into the house of the LORD the silver and gold that he and his father had dedicated, along with the vessels.
There was war between Asa and Baasha, king of Israel, throughout their reigns.
Baasha, king of Israel, went up against Judah and fortified Ramah to prevent anyone from leaving or entering the territory of Asa, king of Judah.
Then Asa took all the silver and gold that remained in the treasuries of the house of the LORD and the royal palace, and he sent them to his officials. King Asa sent them to Benhadad, son of Tabrimon, son of Hezion, king of Aram, who was residing in Damascus, saying,
"There is a treaty between me and you, and between my father and your father. Look, I have sent you a gift of silver and gold; go, break your treaty with Baasha, king of Israel, so that he will withdraw from me."
Benhadad agreed to King Asa's request and sent the commanders of his forces against the towns of Israel; they conquered Ijon, Dan, Abel Beth Maacah, and all Kinnereth, along with all the land of Naphtali.
When Baasha heard this, he stopped building Ramah and settled in Tirzah.
Then King Asa issued a proclamation throughout Judah; no one was exempted. They took away the stones and timber of Ramah, which Baasha had used for building, and with them, King Asa built up Geba of Benjamin and Mizpah.
The rest of the acts of Asa, along with all his might, what he did, and the cities he built, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? Nevertheless, in his old age, he became diseased in his feet.
Asa rested with his ancestors and was buried with them in the city of David, his father; his son Jehoshaphat succeeded him as king.
Nadab, son of Jeroboam, began to reign over Israel in the second year of Asa, king of Judah, and he reigned for two years.
He did evil in the sight of the LORD and followed the ways of his father, committing the same sin that caused Israel to sin.
Baasha, son of Ahijah, of the house of Issachar, conspired against him; Baasha struck him down at Gibbethon, a Philistine town, while Nadab and all Israel were besieging it.
In the third year of Asa, king of Judah, Baasha killed Nadab and succeeded him as king.
As soon as he began to reign, he killed off the entire house of Jeroboam; he did not leave Jeroboam anyone that breathed, fulfilling the word of the LORD spoken through his servant Ahijah the Shilonite.
This was because of the sins of Jeroboam that he had committed and that he had caused Israel to commit, provoking the LORD, the God of Israel, to anger.
The rest of the acts of Nadab and all that he did are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?
There was war between Asa and Baasha, king of Israel, throughout their reigns.
In the third year of Asa, king of Judah, Baasha, son of Ahijah, began to reign over all Israel in Tirzah, and he reigned for twenty-four years.
He did evil in the sight of the LORD and followed the ways of Jeroboam, committing the same sin that caused Israel to sin.
