If a person sins and hears the voice of swearing, and is a witness, whether they have seen or known of it; if they do not speak up, then they shall bear their guilt.  
If a person touches any unclean thing, whether it be the carcass of an unclean animal, or the carcass of unclean livestock, or the carcass of unclean creeping things, and if it is hidden from them; they shall also be unclean and guilty.  
If they touch the uncleanness of a person, whatever uncleanness it may be that a person is defiled by, and it is hidden from them; when they become aware of it, then they shall be guilty.  
If a person swears, pronouncing with their lips to do evil or to do good, whatever it may be that a person pronounces with an oath, and it is hidden from them; when they become aware of it, then they shall be guilty in one of these matters.  
And it shall be that when they are guilty in one of these things, they shall confess that they have sinned in that matter:  
They shall bring their trespass offering to the LORD for the sin they have committed, a female from the flock, a lamb or a kid of the goats, for a sin offering; and the priest shall make atonement for them concerning their sin.  
If they are unable to bring a lamb, then they shall bring for their trespass, which they have committed, two turtledoves or two young pigeons to the LORD; one for a sin offering and the other for a burnt offering.  
They shall bring them to the priest, who shall offer the one for the sin offering first, and wring off its head from its neck, but shall not divide it asunder:  
The priest shall sprinkle some of the blood of the sin offering upon the side of the altar; and the rest of the blood shall be drained at the bottom of the altar: it is a sin offering.  
The second shall be offered for a burnt offering, according to the prescribed manner; and the priest shall make atonement for them for the sin they have committed, and it shall be forgiven them.  
But if they are unable to bring two turtledoves or two young pigeons, then the one who sinned shall bring for their offering the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a sin offering; they shall put no oil on it, nor shall they put any frankincense on it: for it is a sin offering.  
Then they shall bring it to the priest, and the priest shall take a handful of it, as a memorial, and burn it on the altar, according to the offerings made by fire to the LORD: it is a sin offering.  
The priest shall make atonement for them regarding the sin they have committed in one of these matters, and it shall be forgiven them; and the remainder shall belong to the priest as a grain offering.  
And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,  
If a person commits a trespass and sins through ignorance in the holy things of the LORD; then they shall bring for their trespass to the LORD a ram without blemish from the flocks, with your valuation in shekels of silver, according to the shekel of the sanctuary, for a trespass offering.  
They shall make restitution for the harm they have done in the holy thing, and shall add a fifth part to it, and give it to the priest; and the priest shall make atonement for them with the ram of the trespass offering, and it shall be forgiven them.  
If a person sins and commits any of these things which are forbidden by the commandments of the LORD; even if they were unaware, they are still guilty and shall bear their iniquity.  
They shall bring a ram without blemish from the flock, with your valuation, for a trespass offering to the priest; and the priest shall make atonement for them concerning their ignorance in which they erred and were unaware, and it shall be forgiven them.  
It is a trespass offering: they have certainly trespassed against the LORD.