It came to pass after this that the children of Moab, the children of Ammon, and others alongside the Ammonites came against Jehoshaphat for battle.  
Then some came to tell Jehoshaphat, saying, "A great multitude is coming against you from beyond the sea on this side of Syria; behold, they are in Hazazontamar, which is Engedi."  
And Jehoshaphat was afraid, and he set himself to seek the LORD, proclaiming a fast throughout all Judah.  
And Judah gathered together to ask for help from the LORD; they came from all the cities of Judah to seek the LORD.  
And Jehoshaphat stood in the assembly of Judah and Jerusalem, in the house of the LORD, before the new court,  
And said, "O LORD God of our fathers, are you not God in heaven? Do you not rule over all the kingdoms of the nations? Is there not power and might in your hand, so that none can withstand you?  
Are you not our God, who drove out the inhabitants of this land before your people Israel, and gave it to the descendants of Abraham your friend forever?  
And they dwelt there, and built you a sanctuary for your name, saying,  
'If evil comes upon us, such as the sword, judgment, pestilence, or famine, and we stand before this house and in your presence (for your name is in this house) and cry out to you in our affliction, then you will hear and help.'  
And now, behold, the children of Ammon, Moab, and Mount Seir, whom you would not let Israel invade when they came out of the land of Egypt, for they turned away from them and did not destroy them;  
Behold, I say, how they reward us, by coming to cast us out of your possession, which you have given us to inherit.  
O our God, will you not judge them? For we have no power against this great multitude coming against us; nor do we know what to do, but our eyes are upon you.  
And all Judah stood before the LORD, with their little ones, their wives, and their children.  
Then the Spirit of the LORD came upon Jahaziel, the son of Zechariah, the son of Benaiah, the son of Jeiel, the son of Mattaniah, a Levite of the sons of Asaph, in the midst of the congregation;  
And he said, "Listen, all Judah and you inhabitants of Jerusalem, and you King Jehoshaphat: Thus says the LORD to you, 'Do not be afraid or dismayed because of this great multitude; for the battle is not yours, but God's.  
Tomorrow, go down against them: behold, they come up by the cliff of Ziz; and you will find them at the end of the brook, before the wilderness of Jeruel.  
You will not need to fight in this battle: position yourselves, stand still, and see the salvation of the LORD with you, O Judah and Jerusalem: do not fear or be dismayed; tomorrow go out against them, for the LORD will be with you.'"  
And Jehoshaphat bowed his head with his face to the ground, and all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem fell before the LORD, worshiping the LORD.  
And the Levites, of the children of the Kohathites and the Korhites, stood up to praise the LORD God of Israel with a loud voice on high.  
And they rose early in the morning and went forth into the wilderness of Tekoa: and as they went, Jehoshaphat stood and said, "Hear me, O Judah, and you inhabitants of Jerusalem; believe in the LORD your God, and you shall be established; believe his prophets, and you shall prosper."  
And when he had consulted with the people, he appointed singers to the LORD, to praise the beauty of holiness as they went out before the army, saying, "Praise the LORD; for his mercy endures forever."  
And when they began to sing and to praise, the LORD set ambushes against the children of Ammon, Moab, and Mount Seir, who had come against Judah; and they were struck down.  
For the children of Ammon and Moab rose up against the inhabitants of Mount Seir, utterly to slay and destroy them; and when they had finished with the inhabitants of Seir, everyone helped to destroy one another.  
And when Judah came toward the watchtower in the wilderness, they looked toward the multitude, and behold, they were dead bodies fallen to the earth, and none escaped.  
And when Jehoshaphat and his people came to take away the spoil, they found among them in abundance both riches with the dead bodies and precious jewels, which they stripped off for themselves, more than they could carry away; and they were three days gathering the spoil, it was so much.  
And on the fourth day, they assembled in the valley of Berachah; for there they blessed the LORD: therefore, the name of that place was called The Valley of Berachah to this day.  
Then they returned, every man of Judah and Jerusalem, and Jehoshaphat at the forefront of them, to go again to Jerusalem with joy; for the LORD had made them rejoice over their enemies.  
And they came to Jerusalem with psalteries, harps, and trumpets to the house of the LORD.  
And the fear of God was on all the kingdoms of those countries when they heard that the LORD fought against the enemies of Israel.  
So the realm of Jehoshaphat was quiet, for his God gave him rest all around.  
And Jehoshaphat reigned over Judah; he was thirty-five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty-five years in Jerusalem. His mother's name was Azubah, the daughter of Shilhi.  
And he walked in the way of Asa his father, and did not turn from it, doing what was right in the sight of the LORD.  
However, the high places were not taken away, for the people had not yet prepared their hearts to the God of their fathers.  
Now the rest of the acts of Jehoshaphat, first and last, behold, they are written in the book of Jehu, the son of Hanani, which is mentioned in the book of the kings of Israel.  
And after this, Jehoshaphat, king of Judah, allied himself with Ahaziah, king of Israel, who acted very wickedly.  
And he joined with him to make ships to go to Tarshish; and they made the ships in Eziongaber.  
Then Eliezer, the son of Dodavah of Mareshah, prophesied against Jehoshaphat, saying, "Because you have allied yourself with Ahaziah, the LORD has broken your works." And the ships were wrecked, so that they were not able to go to Tarshish.