In the ninth year, on the tenth month, and on the tenth day of the month, the word of the LORD came to me, saying,  
"Son of man, write down the name of this day: the king of Babylon has set himself against Jerusalem on this very day."  
"Utter a parable to the rebellious house, and say to them, Thus says the Lord GOD: Set a pot on the fire, and pour water into it."  
"Gather the choice pieces into it, every good piece, the thigh and the shoulder; fill it with the best bones."  
"Take the best of the flock, and burn the bones beneath it; make it boil well, and let the bones simmer in it."  
"Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD: Woe to the bloody city, to the pot whose scum is in it, and whose scum has not been removed! Bring it out piece by piece; let no lot fall upon it."  
"For her blood is in the midst of her; she set it on the top of a rock; she did not pour it on the ground to cover it with dust."  
"That it might provoke fury to take vengeance; I have set her blood on the top of a rock, so that it should not be covered."  
"Therefore, thus says the Lord GOD: Woe to the bloody city! I will make the fire pile great."  
"Heap on wood, kindle the fire, consume the flesh, and season it well; let the bones be burned."  
"Then set it empty on the coals, so that its brass may become hot, and burn, and the filthiness may melt in it, and the scum may be consumed."  
"She has wearied herself with lies, and her great scum has not gone out of her; her scum shall be in the fire."  
"In your filthiness is lewdness: because I have purged you, and you were not purged, you shall not be cleansed from your filthiness any more, until I have caused my fury to rest upon you."  
"I the LORD have spoken it: it shall come to pass, and I will do it; I will not turn back, nor will I spare, nor will I repent; according to your ways and your deeds, they shall judge you, says the Lord GOD."  
Also, the word of the LORD came to me, saying,  
"Son of man, behold, I will take away from you the desire of your eyes with a stroke: yet you shall neither mourn nor weep, nor shall your tears run down."  
"Do not cry, make no mourning for the dead; bind the turban on your head, put your shoes on your feet, cover not your lips, and do not eat the bread of men."  
"So I spoke to the people in the morning, and in the evening my wife died; and I did as I was commanded in the morning."  
"And the people said to me, 'Will you not tell us what these things mean to us, that you are doing this?'"  
"Then I answered them, 'The word of the LORD came to me, saying,  
Speak to the house of Israel, Thus says the Lord GOD: Behold, I will profane my sanctuary, the pride of your strength, the desire of your eyes, and that which your soul pities; and your sons and daughters whom you have left shall fall by the sword.'"  
"And you shall do as I have done: you shall not cover your lips, nor eat the bread of men."  
"And your turbans shall be on your heads, and your shoes on your feet; you shall not mourn nor weep; but you shall pine away for your iniquities, and mourn one toward another."  
"Thus Ezekiel is a sign to you: according to all that he has done, you shall do; and when this comes, you shall know that I am the Lord GOD."  
"Also, son of man, will it not be on the day when I take from them their strength, the joy of their glory, the desire of their eyes, and that which they set their minds on, their sons and daughters,  
That he who escapes on that day shall come to you, to make you hear it with your ears?"  
"In that day your mouth shall be opened to him who has escaped, and you shall speak, and be no longer mute; and you shall be a sign to them; and they shall know that I am the LORD."