And Moses went and spoke these words to all of Israel.  
He said to them, "I am one hundred and twenty years old today; I can no longer go out and come in. The LORD has told me, 'You shall not cross this Jordan.'  
The LORD your God will go ahead of you; He will destroy these nations before you, and you will possess their land. Joshua will lead you across, as the LORD has said.  
The LORD will do to them what He did to Sihon and Og, the kings of the Amorites, and to their land, which He destroyed.  
The LORD will deliver them into your hands so that you may follow all the commandments I have given you.  
Be strong and courageous; do not be afraid or terrified of them, for the LORD your God goes with you; He will not leave you or forsake you.  
Moses called to Joshua and said in the sight of all Israel, "Be strong and courageous, for you must lead this people into the land the LORD swore to their ancestors to give them, and you will help them inherit it."  
The LORD goes before you; He will be with you; He will not fail you or forsake you. Do not be afraid or discouraged.  
Moses wrote this law and gave it to the priests, the sons of Levi, who carried the ark of the covenant of the LORD, and to all the elders of Israel.  
Moses commanded them, saying, "At the end of every seven years, during the year of release, at the Feast of Tabernacles,  
when all Israel assembles to appear before the LORD your God at the place He will choose, you shall read this law before all Israel so they can hear it."  
Gather the people—men, women, children, and the foreigners residing in your towns—so they can listen and learn to fear the LORD your God and follow all the words of this law.  
Let their children, who do not yet know anything, hear and learn to fear the LORD your God as long as you live in the land you are crossing the Jordan to possess.  
The LORD said to Moses, "The time has come for you to die. Call Joshua and present yourselves at the tent of meeting, so I can commission him." So Moses and Joshua went and presented themselves at the tent of meeting.  
The LORD appeared at the tent in a pillar of cloud, and the cloud stood at the entrance to the tent.  
The LORD said to Moses, "You are going to rest with your ancestors, and these people will soon prostitute themselves to the foreign gods of the land they are entering. They will forsake me and break the covenant I made with them.  
My anger will be aroused against them in that day; I will forsake them and hide my face from them, and they will be destroyed. Many disasters and difficulties will come upon them, and in that day they will ask, 'Have not these disasters come upon us because our God is not with us?'  
I will certainly hide my face in that day because of all their wickedness in turning to other gods.  
Now write down this song and teach it to the Israelites and have them sing it, so that it may be a witness for me against them.  
When I have brought them into the land flowing with milk and honey, the land I promised on oath to their ancestors, and when they eat their fill and thrive, they will turn to other gods and worship them, rejecting me and breaking my covenant.  
When many disasters and difficulties come upon them, this song will testify against them as a witness, because it will not be forgotten by their descendants. I know what they are inclined to do, even now, before I bring them into the land I promised them."  
So Moses wrote down this song that same day and taught it to the Israelites.  
He gave Joshua son of Nun a charge and said, "Be strong and courageous, for you will bring the Israelites into the land I promised them, and I will be with you."  
When Moses had finished writing down the words of this law in a book, he completed it.  
He commanded the Levites who carried the ark of the covenant of the LORD, saying,  
"Take this Book of the Law and place it beside the ark of the covenant of the LORD your God, so it may be there as a witness against you.  
I know how rebellious and stiff-necked you are. If you have been rebellious against the LORD while I am still alive, how much more will you rebel after my death!  
Assemble before me all the elders of your tribes and all your officials, so I can speak these words in their hearing and call heaven and earth to testify against them.  
For I know that after my death you will become utterly corrupt and turn from the way I have commanded you. In the days to come, disaster will overtake you because you will do evil in the sight of the LORD and provoke Him to anger by what your hands have made."  
Moses spoke the words of this song in the hearing of the whole assembly of Israel until he finished.