And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
On the first day of the first month, you shall set up the tabernacle of the tent of meeting.
And you shall place the ark of the testimony inside, and cover the ark with the veil.
You shall bring in the table and arrange the items that are to be placed on it; and you shall bring in the lampstand and light its lamps.
You shall set the golden altar for incense before the ark of the testimony, and hang the door to the tabernacle.
You shall place the altar of burnt offering before the door of the tabernacle of the tent of meeting.
You shall set the laver between the tent of meeting and the altar, and put water in it.
You shall set up the courtyard around it and hang the curtain at the courtyard gate.
You shall take the anointing oil and anoint the tabernacle and everything in it, and consecrate it and all its vessels: it shall be holy.
You shall anoint the altar of burnt offering and all its utensils, and sanctify the altar: it shall be most holy.
You shall anoint the laver and its base, and sanctify it.
You shall bring Aaron and his sons to the entrance of the tabernacle of meeting and wash them with water.
You shall put the holy garments on Aaron, anoint him, and consecrate him; that he may minister to me as a priest.
You shall bring his sons and clothe them with tunics.
You shall anoint them, as you anointed their father, so that they may minister to me as priests: their anointing shall be an everlasting priesthood throughout their generations.
Thus Moses did: according to all that the LORD commanded him, so he did.
And it came to pass in the first month of the second year, on the first day of the month, that the tabernacle was erected.
Moses erected the tabernacle, fastened its sockets, set up its boards, put in its bars, and raised its pillars.
He spread the tent over the tabernacle and placed the covering of the tent above it; as the LORD commanded Moses.
He took the testimony and placed it in the ark, set the poles on the ark, and put the mercy seat on top of the ark.
He brought the ark into the tabernacle, set up the veil of the covering, and covered the ark of the testimony; as the LORD commanded Moses.
He placed the table in the tent of meeting, on the north side of the tabernacle, outside the veil.
He arranged the bread on it before the LORD; as the LORD had commanded Moses.
He placed the lampstand in the tent of meeting, opposite the table, on the south side of the tabernacle.
He lit the lamps before the LORD; as the LORD commanded Moses.
He placed the golden altar in the tent of meeting before the veil.
He burned fragrant incense on it; as the LORD commanded Moses.
He set up the curtain at the door of the tabernacle.
He placed the altar of burnt offering by the door of the tabernacle of the tent of meeting, and offered on it the burnt offering and the grain offering; as the LORD commanded Moses.
He set the laver between the tent of meeting and the altar, and put water in it for washing.
Moses, Aaron, and his sons washed their hands and feet there.
When they went into the tent of meeting, and when they approached the altar, they washed; as the LORD commanded Moses.
He erected the courtyard around the tabernacle and the altar, and set up the curtain at the courtyard gate. So Moses completed the work.
Then a cloud covered the tent of meeting, and the glory of the LORD filled the tabernacle.
Moses was not able to enter the tent of meeting because the cloud rested on it, and the glory of the LORD filled the tabernacle.
When the cloud was taken up from over the tabernacle, the children of Israel set out on all their journeys.
But if the cloud was not taken up, they did not set out until the day it was taken up.
For the cloud of the LORD was upon the tabernacle by day, and fire was on it by night, in the sight of all the house of Israel, throughout all their journeys.
