The burden that the prophet Habakkuk witnessed.  
O LORD, how long must I cry out, and you do not listen? Even cry out to you about violence, and you do not save!  
Why do you show me wrongdoing and make me see trouble? For destruction and violence are before me, and there are those who stir up strife and conflict.  
Therefore, the law is paralyzed, and justice never goes forth; for the wicked surround the righteous; therefore, wrong judgment prevails.  
Look among the nations and observe, and be amazed: for I will do a work in your days that you would not believe, even if it were told to you.  
For behold, I am raising up the Chaldeans, that fierce and swift nation, which will march through the breadth of the land to possess dwelling places that are not theirs.  
They are terrifying and dreadful; their judgment and their authority come from themselves.  
Their horses are swifter than leopards and more ferocious than evening wolves; their horsemen spread out, and their riders come from afar; they fly like an eagle that hastens to eat.  
They come for violence; their faces are like the east wind, and they gather captives like sand.  
They scoff at kings, and princes are a joke to them; they deride every stronghold, for they pile up earth and take it.  
Then their minds will change, and they will pass over, offending, attributing this power to their god.  
Are you not from everlasting, O LORD my God, my Holy One? We shall not die. O LORD, you have appointed them for judgment; and, O mighty God, you have established them for correction.  
You are of purer eyes than to see evil, and cannot look upon iniquity; why then do you look upon those who deal treacherously and remain silent when the wicked devours the man more righteous than he?  
And do you make men like the fish of the sea, like creeping things that have no ruler over them?  
They catch all of them with a hook, they ensnare them in their net, and gather them in their drag; therefore, they rejoice and are glad.  
Therefore, they sacrifice to their net and burn incense to their drag; because by them their portion is rich, and their food is plentiful.  
Will they therefore empty their net and not spare continually to slay nations?