Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and Timothy our brother, to the church of God in Corinth, along with all the saints in Achaia:
Grace and peace to you from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
Blessed be God, the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies, and the God of all comfort;
Who comforts us in all our tribulations, so that we may be able to comfort those who are in any trouble, with the comfort we ourselves receive from God.
For as the sufferings of Christ abound in us, so our consolation also abounds through Christ.
And whether we are afflicted, it is for your consolation and salvation, which is effective in enduring the same sufferings we also suffer; or whether we are comforted, it is for your consolation and salvation.
And our hope for you is steadfast, knowing that as you share in the sufferings, you will also share in the consolation.
For we do not want you to be unaware, brothers, of the trouble we experienced in Asia, that we were burdened beyond measure, above our strength, so that we despaired even of life.
But we had the sentence of death within ourselves, so that we would not trust in ourselves, but in God who raises the dead.
Who delivered us from such a great death, and does deliver us; in whom we trust that He will yet deliver us.
You also helping together by prayer for us, so that the gift bestowed upon us by the means of many may result in thanksgiving by many on our behalf.
For our rejoicing is this: the testimony of our conscience, that in simplicity and godly sincerity, not with fleshly wisdom, but by the grace of God, we have conducted ourselves in the world, and especially toward you.
For we write nothing else to you than what you read and acknowledge; and I trust you will acknowledge it even to the end.
As you have acknowledged us in part, that we are your rejoicing, just as you are ours in the day of the Lord Jesus.
And in this confidence, I intended to come to you before, so that you might have a second benefit;
And to pass by you into Macedonia, and to come again from Macedonia to you, and to be helped on my journey toward Judea by you.
When I therefore was thus minded, did I use lightness? Or the things I plan, do I plan according to the flesh, so that with me there should be yes, yes, and no, no?
But as God is true, our word to you was not yes and no.
For the Son of God, Jesus Christ, who was preached among you by us, even by me and Silvanus and Timothy, was not yes and no, but in Him was yes.
For all the promises of God in Him are yes, and in Him Amen, to the glory of God through us.
Now He who establishes us with you in Christ and has anointed us is God;
Who has also sealed us and given us the Spirit in our hearts as a guarantee.
Moreover, I call God as my witness, that to spare you, I did not come to Corinth as yet.
Not that we have dominion over your faith, but are helpers of your joy; for by faith you stand.
