Finally, my brothers, rejoice in the Lord. Writing the same things to you is not burdensome for me, but it is safe for you.
Beware of those who are deceitful, beware of evil workers, beware of those who mutilate the flesh.
For we are the true circumcision, who worship God in the Spirit, rejoice in Christ Jesus, and place no confidence in the flesh.
Though I could have confidence in the flesh as well. If anyone else thinks he has reasons to trust in the flesh, I have more:
Circumcised on the eighth day, of the people of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews; regarding the law, a Pharisee;
As for zeal, I persecuted the church; as for righteousness based on the law, I was faultless.
But whatever were gains to me, I now consider loss for the sake of Christ.
Indeed, I count everything as loss because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus my Lord; for his sake, I have lost all things, and I consider them garbage, that I may gain Christ,
And be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ—the righteousness that comes from God on the basis of faith:
I want to know Christ—yes, to know the power of his resurrection and participation in his sufferings, becoming like him in his death;
And so, somehow, attaining to the resurrection from the dead.
Not that I have already obtained all this, or have already arrived at my goal; but I press on to take hold of that for which Christ Jesus took hold of me.
Brothers and sisters, I do not consider myself yet to have taken hold of it. But one thing I do: Forgetting what is behind and straining toward what is ahead,
I press on toward the goal to win the prize for which God has called me heavenward in Christ Jesus.
All of us, then, who are mature should take such a view of things. And if on some point you think differently, that too God will make clear to you.
Only let us live up to what we have already attained.
Brothers and sisters, join in following my example, and observe those who live according to the pattern we gave you.
(For many, as I have often told you before and now tell you again even with tears, live as enemies of the cross of Christ:
Their destiny is destruction, their god is their stomach, and their glory is in their shame. Their mind is set on earthly things.)
But our citizenship is in heaven, and we eagerly await a Savior from there, the Lord Jesus Christ,
Who, by the power that enables him to bring everything under his control, will transform our lowly bodies so that they will be like his glorious body.
