Be silent before me, O islands; let the people renew their strength. Let them draw near; then let them speak; let us come together for judgment.  
Who raised up the righteous man from the east, called him to his feet, gave nations before him, and made him rule over kings? He made them like dust to his sword and like driven stubble to his bow.  
He pursued them and passed safely, even by a way he had not traveled with his feet.  
Who has accomplished this, calling the generations from the beginning? I, the LORD, am the first and the last; I am He.  
The islands saw it and feared; the ends of the earth were afraid, drew near, and came.  
They helped one another; and each said to his brother, "Be of good courage."  
So the carpenter encouraged the goldsmith, and he who smooths with the hammer encouraged him who struck the anvil, saying, "It is ready for soldering." He fastened it with nails so it would not be moved.  
But you, Israel, are my servant, Jacob whom I have chosen, the seed of Abraham my friend.  
You whom I have taken from the ends of the earth and called from its chief men, I said to you, "You are my servant; I have chosen you and not cast you away."  
Do not fear, for I am with you; do not be dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen you; yes, I will help you; yes, I will uphold you with the right hand of my righteousness.  
Behold, all those who were incensed against you shall be ashamed and confounded; they shall be as nothing, and those who strive with you shall perish.  
You shall seek them and not find them, even those who contended with you; those who war against you shall be as nothing, and as a thing of naught.  
For I, the LORD your God, will hold your right hand, saying to you, "Do not fear; I will help you."  
Do not fear, you worm Jacob, and you men of Israel; I will help you, says the LORD, and your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel.  
Behold, I will make you a new sharp threshing instrument with teeth; you shall thresh the mountains and beat them small, and make the hills like chaff.  
You shall winnow them, and the wind shall carry them away, and the whirlwind shall scatter them; and you shall rejoice in the LORD and glory in the Holy One of Israel.  
When the poor and needy seek water and there is none, and their tongue fails for thirst, I, the LORD, will hear them; I, the God of Israel, will not forsake them.  
I will open rivers in high places and fountains in the midst of the valleys; I will make the wilderness a pool of water and the dry land springs of water.  
I will plant in the wilderness the cedar, the shittah tree, the myrtle, and the oil tree; I will set in the desert the fir tree, the pine, and the box tree together.  
That they may see, know, consider, and understand together that the hand of the LORD has done this, and the Holy One of Israel has created it.  
Present your case, says the LORD; bring forth your strong reasons, says the King of Jacob.  
Let them bring them forth and show us what will happen; let them show the former things, what they are, that we may consider them and know their latter end; or declare to us things to come.  
Show the things that are to come hereafter, that we may know that you are gods; yes, do good or do evil, that we may be dismayed and behold it together.  
Behold, you are of nothing, and your work is of naught; an abomination is he who chooses you.  
I have raised up one from the north, and he shall come; from the rising of the sun shall he call upon my name. He shall come upon princes as upon mortar, and as the potter treads clay.  
Who has declared from the beginning that we may know? And beforehand, that we may say, "He is righteous"? Yes, there is none who shows, yes, there is none who declares, yes, there is none who hears your words.  
The first shall say to Zion, "Behold, behold them," and I will give to Jerusalem one who brings good tidings.  
For I looked, and there was no man; even among them, there was no counselor who, when I asked of them, could answer a word.  
Behold, they are all vanity; their works are nothing; their molten images are wind and confusion.