In those days, John the Baptist appeared, preaching in the wilderness of Judea,  
And he proclaimed, "Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is near."  
For this is the one spoken of by the prophet Isaiah, who said, "The voice of one crying in the wilderness, 'Prepare the way of the Lord, make his paths straight.'"  
John wore clothing made of camel's hair, with a leather belt around his waist; his food consisted of locusts and wild honey.  
Then people from Jerusalem, all of Judea, and the surrounding region of the Jordan went out to him,  
And they were baptized by him in the Jordan River, confessing their sins.  
But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming to his baptism, he said to them, "You brood of vipers, who warned you to flee from the coming wrath?  
Produce fruit in keeping with repentance.  
And do not think you can say to yourselves, 'We have Abraham as our father.' For I tell you that out of these stones God can raise up children for Abraham.  
The axe has already been laid at the root of the trees; every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire.  
I baptize you with water for repentance, but he who comes after me is more powerful than I, whose sandals I am not worthy to carry. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire.  
His winnowing fork is in his hand, and he will thoroughly clear his threshing floor, gathering his wheat into the barn and burning up the chaff with unquenchable fire.  
Then Jesus came from Galilee to the Jordan to be baptized by John.  
But John tried to deter him, saying, "I need to be baptized by you, and do you come to me?"  
Jesus replied, "Let it be so now; it is proper for us to do this to fulfill all righteousness." Then John consented.  
As soon as Jesus was baptized, he went up out of the water. At that moment, heaven was opened, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and alighting on him.  
And a voice from heaven said, "This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased."