Behold, the hand of the LORD is not shortened, so that it cannot save; nor is His ear heavy, so that it cannot hear.  
But your iniquities have created a separation between you and your God, and your sins have hidden His face from you, so that He will not hear.  
For your hands are stained with blood, and your fingers with iniquity; your lips have spoken lies, and your tongue has muttered perversity.  
No one calls for justice, nor does anyone plead for truth: they trust in vanity and speak lies; they conceive mischief and bring forth iniquity.  
They hatch the eggs of vipers and weave the spider's web: whoever eats their eggs dies, and what is crushed breaks out into a viper.  
Their webs will not become garments, nor will they cover themselves with their works: their works are works of iniquity, and violence is in their hands.  
Their feet run to evil, and they hurry to shed innocent blood: their thoughts are thoughts of iniquity; wasting and destruction are in their paths.  
They do not know the way of peace; there is no judgment in their goings: they have made their paths crooked; whoever walks in them shall not know peace.  
Therefore, judgment is far from us, and justice does not overtake us: we wait for light, but behold obscurity; for brightness, but we walk in darkness.  
We grope for the wall like the blind, and we stumble as if we had no eyes: we stumble at noon as in the night; we are in desolate places like dead men.  
We roar like bears and mourn like doves: we look for judgment, but there is none; for salvation, but it is far from us.  
For our transgressions are multiplied before You, and our sins testify against us: our transgressions are with us; and as for our iniquities, we know them.  
In transgressing and lying against the LORD, and turning away from our God, speaking oppression and revolt, conceiving and uttering from the heart words of falsehood.  
And judgment is turned away backward, and justice stands afar off: for truth has fallen in the street, and equity cannot enter.  
Indeed, truth fails; and he who departs from evil makes himself a prey: and the LORD saw it, and it displeased Him that there was no judgment.  
And He saw that there was no man, and wondered that there was no intercessor: therefore His own arm brought salvation to Him; and His righteousness, it sustained Him.  
For He put on righteousness as a breastplate, and a helmet of salvation upon His head; and He put on garments of vengeance for clothing, and was clad with zeal as a cloak.  
According to their deeds, so He will repay, fury to His adversaries, recompense to His enemies; to the islands, He will repay recompense.  
So shall they fear the name of the LORD from the west, and His glory from the rising of the sun. When the enemy comes in like a flood, the Spirit of the LORD shall lift up a standard against him.  
And the Redeemer shall come to Zion, and to those who turn from transgression in Jacob, says the LORD.  
As for me, this is my covenant with them, says the LORD; My Spirit that is upon you, and My words which I have put in your mouth, shall not depart from your mouth, nor from the mouth of your descendants, nor from the mouth of your descendants' descendants, says the LORD, from now on and forever.