Then, fourteen years after I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, I also took Titus with me.
I went up by revelation and communicated to them the gospel that I preach among the Gentiles, but privately to those who were of reputation, lest by any means I should run, or had run, in vain.
But neither Titus, who was with me, being a Greek, was compelled to be circumcised.
And this was because of false brethren who were secretly brought in, who came in privately to spy out our liberty which we have in Christ Jesus, so that they might bring us into bondage.
To whom we gave no place by subjection, not even for an hour; that the truth of the gospel might continue with you.
But of those who seemed to be somewhat (whatever they were, it makes no difference to me: God accepts no man's person) for those who seemed to be somewhat in conference added nothing to me.
On the contrary, when they saw that the gospel of the uncircumcision was committed to me, as the gospel of the circumcision was to Peter;
(For he who worked effectively in Peter for the apostleship of the circumcision was also mighty in me toward the Gentiles.)
And when James, Cephas, and John, who seemed to be pillars, perceived the grace that was given to me, they gave to me and Barnabas the right hands of fellowship, that we should go to the Gentiles, and they to the circumcision.
Only they asked that we should remember the poor, which I was also eager to do.
But when Peter came to Antioch, I opposed him to his face because he was to be blamed.
For before certain men came from James, he used to eat with the Gentiles; but when they came, he withdrew and separated himself, fearing those who were of the circumcision.
And the other Jews also played the hypocrite with him, so that even Barnabas was carried away with their hypocrisy.
But when I saw that they were not walking uprightly according to the truth of the gospel, I said to Peter before them all, "If you, being a Jew, live in the manner of Gentiles and not as the Jews, why do you compel Gentiles to live as Jews?"
We who are Jews by nature and not sinners of the Gentiles,
Knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law but by the faith of Jesus Christ, even we have believed in Jesus Christ, that we might be justified by the faith of Christ and not by the works of the law; for by the works of the law no flesh will be justified.
But if, while we seek to be justified by Christ, we ourselves are also found sinners, is Christ therefore a minister of sin? Certainly not!
For if I rebuild what I have destroyed, I make myself a transgressor.
For I, through the law, died to the law that I might live to God.
I have been crucified with Christ; nevertheless, I live; yet not I, but Christ lives in me; and the life which I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave Himself for me.
I do not set aside the grace of God; for if righteousness comes through the law, then Christ died in vain.
