And the LORD said to Moses, "Hew two stone tablets like the first ones; I will write on these tablets the words that were on the first tablets, which you broke."  
"Be ready in the morning, and come up in the morning to Mount Sinai, and present yourself to me at the top of the mountain."  
"No one shall come up with you, and let no one be seen throughout the mountain; neither let the flocks nor herds graze in front of that mountain."  
So he hewed two stone tablets like the first ones; Moses rose early in the morning, went up to Mount Sinai as the LORD had commanded him, and took the two stone tablets in his hand.  
And the LORD descended in the cloud, stood with him there, and proclaimed the name of the LORD.  
The LORD passed by before him and proclaimed, "The LORD, the LORD God, merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and abundant in goodness and truth,  
keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity, transgression, and sin; yet He will by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children and the children's children, to the third and fourth generation."  
Moses hurried, bowed his head toward the earth, and worshipped.  
He said, "If I have found grace in your sight, O LORD, let my LORD, I pray, go among us; for it is a stiff-necked people; pardon our iniquity and our sin, and take us for Your inheritance."  
The LORD said, "Behold, I make a covenant: before all your people I will do marvels, such as have not been done in all the earth, nor in any nation; and all the people among whom you are shall see the work of the LORD, for it is a terrible thing that I will do with you."  
"Observe what I command you this day: behold, I drive out before you the Amorite, the Canaanite, the Hittite, the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite."  
"Take heed to yourself, lest you make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land where you go, lest it be a snare in your midst."  
"But you shall destroy their altars, break their images, and cut down their groves."  
"For you shall worship no other god, for the LORD, whose name is Jealous, is a jealous God."  
"Lest you make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land, and they go whoring after their gods, and sacrifice to their gods, and one call you, and you eat of his sacrifice;  
and you take of their daughters for your sons, and their daughters go whoring after their gods, and make your sons go whoring after their gods."  
"You shall make no molten gods for yourselves."  
"You shall keep the feast of unleavened bread. Seven days you shall eat unleavened bread, as I commanded you, in the month of Abib; for in the month of Abib you came out from Egypt."  
"All that opens the womb is mine; and every firstborn among your cattle, whether ox or sheep, that is male."  
"But the firstborn of a donkey you shall redeem with a lamb; and if you do not redeem him, then you shall break his neck. All the firstborn of your sons you shall redeem. And none shall appear before me empty."  
"Six days you shall work, but on the seventh day you shall rest; in plowing time and in harvest you shall rest."  
"And you shall observe the feast of weeks, of the firstfruits of the wheat harvest, and the feast of ingathering at the year's end."  
"Three times in the year all your males shall appear before the LORD God, the God of Israel."  
"For I will cast out the nations before you and enlarge your borders; neither shall any man desire your land when you go up to appear before the LORD your God three times in the year."  
"You shall not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leaven; neither shall the sacrifice of the feast of the Passover be left until morning."  
"The first of the firstfruits of your land you shall bring to the house of the LORD your God. You shall not boil a kid in its mother's milk."  
And the LORD said to Moses, "Write these words: for after the tenor of these words I have made a covenant with you and with Israel."  
He was there with the LORD forty days and forty nights; he neither ate bread nor drank water. And he wrote on the tablets the words of the covenant, the ten commandments.  
When Moses came down from Mount Sinai with the two tablets of testimony in his hand, he did not know that the skin of his face shone while he talked with Him.  
When Aaron and all the children of Israel saw Moses, behold, the skin of his face shone; and they were afraid to come near him.  
Moses called to them; and Aaron and all the rulers of the congregation returned to him, and Moses talked with them.  
Afterward, all the children of Israel came near, and he gave them in commandment all that the LORD had spoken with him on Mount Sinai.  
Until Moses had finished speaking with them, he put a veil on his face.  
But when Moses went in before the LORD to speak with Him, he took the veil off until he came out. And when he came out, he spoke to the children of Israel what he was commanded.  
The children of Israel saw the face of Moses, that the skin of Moses' face shone; and Moses put the veil on his face again until he went in to speak with Him.