He entered the synagogue again, and there was a man present with a withered hand.  
They watched him closely to see if he would heal the man on the Sabbath, hoping to accuse him.  
He said to the man with the withered hand, "Stand up."  
He asked them, "Is it lawful to do good on the Sabbath, or to do evil? To save a life, or to kill?" But they remained silent.  
Looking around at them in anger, grieved by the hardness of their hearts, he said to the man, "Stretch out your hand." He stretched it out, and his hand was restored, whole like the other.  
The Pharisees went out and immediately conspired with the Herodians against him, plotting how they might destroy him.  
But Jesus withdrew with his disciples to the sea, and a large crowd from Galilee followed him, along with people from Judea,  
Jerusalem, Idumea, and beyond the Jordan; a great multitude from Tyre and Sidon came to him when they heard about the great things he was doing.  
He instructed his disciples to have a small boat ready for him because of the crowd, so they wouldn't crush him.  
He had healed many, so those with diseases pressed in to touch him.  
Unclean spirits, when they saw him, fell down before him and cried out, "You are the Son of God!"  
He strictly warned them not to make him known.  
He went up on a mountain and called to him those he wanted, and they came to him.  
He appointed twelve, designating them as apostles, so they could be with him and that he might send them out to preach,  
And to have authority to heal sicknesses and cast out demons.  
He gave Simon the name Peter;  
And James, the son of Zebedee, and John, the brother of James; he named them Boanerges, which means "Sons of Thunder."  
And Andrew, Philip, Bartholomew, Matthew, Thomas, James, the son of Alphaeus, Thaddaeus, and Simon the Zealot,  
And Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed him; and they went into a house.  
The crowd gathered again, so much so that they couldn't even eat bread.  
When his friends heard about this, they went out to seize him, saying, "He is out of his mind."  
The scribes who had come down from Jerusalem said, "He is possessed by Beelzebub, and by the ruler of demons, he casts out demons."  
He called them to him and spoke to them in parables, "How can Satan cast out Satan?  
If a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand.  
If a house is divided against itself, that house cannot stand.  
And if Satan rises up against himself and is divided, he cannot stand, but has an end.  
No one can enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods unless he first binds the strong man; then he can plunder his house.  
Truly I tell you, all sins will be forgiven the children of men, and whatever blasphemies they utter;  
But whoever blasphemes against the Holy Spirit will never be forgiven, but is guilty of eternal sin."  
This was because they said, "He has an unclean spirit."  
Then his mother and brothers arrived, standing outside, they sent someone in to call him.  
The crowd was sitting around him, and they said to him, "Look, your mother and your brothers are outside looking for you."  
He replied, "Who are my mother and my brothers?"  
Looking at those seated in a circle around him, he said, "Here are my mother and my brothers!  
Whoever does the will of God is my brother and sister and mother."