Then Eliphaz the Temanite responded and said,  
Should a wise man speak empty knowledge and fill his belly with the winds from the east?  
Should he engage in unprofitable discussions? Or in speeches that yield no benefit?  
Indeed, you dismiss fear and restrain prayer before God.  
For your mouth speaks your iniquity, and you choose the tongue of the deceitful.  
Your own mouth condemns you, not I; indeed, your own lips bear witness against you.  
Are you the first man ever born? Or were you made before the hills?  
Have you heard the secrets of God? And do you keep wisdom to yourself?  
What do you know that we do not? What understanding do you possess that is not in us?  
Among us are both the gray-haired and very aged men, much older than your father.  
Are the consolations of God insignificant to you? Is there any secret thing with you?  
Why does your heart carry you away? And what do your eyes wink at,  
That you turn your spirit against God and let such words escape your mouth?  
What is man, that he should be pure? And he who is born of a woman, that he should be righteous?  
Behold, he puts no trust in his saints; indeed, the heavens are not clean in his sight.  
How much more abominable and filthy is man, who drinks iniquity like water?  
I will show you; listen to me, and what I have seen I will declare;  
Which wise men have told from their fathers and have not concealed:  
To whom alone the earth was given, and no stranger passed among them.  
The wicked man endures pain all his days, and the number of years is hidden from the oppressor.  
A dreadful sound is in his ears; in prosperity, the destroyer will come upon him.  
He does not believe he will return from darkness, and he is awaited by the sword.  
He wanders abroad for bread, saying, "Where is it?" He knows that the day of darkness is near.  
Trouble and anguish will make him afraid; they will prevail against him like a king ready for battle.  
For he stretches out his hand against God and strengthens himself against the Almighty.  
He charges at Him, even on his neck, upon the thick shields of his armor.  
Because he covers his face with his fatness and makes layers of fat on his sides.  
And he dwells in desolate cities, in houses that no man inhabits, which are ready to become ruins.  
He will not be rich, nor will his wealth endure; he will not prolong his prosperity upon the earth.  
He will not escape from darkness; the flame will dry up his branches, and by the breath of his mouth, he will perish.  
Let not the deceived trust in emptiness, for emptiness will be his reward.  
It will be fulfilled before his time, and his branch will not be green.  
He will shake off his unripe grapes like the vine and cast off his blossoms like the olive.  
For the congregation of hypocrites will be desolate, and fire will consume the tents of bribery.  
They conceive mischief, bring forth emptiness, and their bellies prepare deceit.