And it came to pass in the sixth year, in the sixth month, on the fifth day of the month, as I sat in my house, and the elders of Judah sat before me, that the hand of the Lord GOD came upon me there.  
Then I looked, and behold, a likeness resembling the appearance of fire: from the appearance of his loins downward, fire; and from his loins upward, the appearance of brightness, like the color of amber.  
And he extended the form of a hand, took me by a lock of my head; and the Spirit lifted me up between the earth and the heavens, and brought me in the visions of God to Jerusalem, to the door of the inner gate that looks toward the north; where was the seat of the image of jealousy, which provokes to jealousy.  
And behold, the glory of the God of Israel was there, according to the vision that I had seen in the plain.  
Then he said to me, Son of man, lift up your eyes now toward the north. So I lifted up my eyes toward the north, and behold, northward at the gate of the altar was this image of jealousy at the entrance.  
He said furthermore to me, Son of man, do you see what they are doing? even the great abominations that the house of Israel commits here, that I should go far off from my sanctuary? But turn again, and you shall see greater abominations.  
And he brought me to the door of the court; and when I looked, behold, there was a hole in the wall.  
Then he said to me, Son of man, dig now in the wall: and when I had dug in the wall, behold, a door.  
And he said to me, Go in, and see the wicked abominations that they are doing here.  
So I went in and saw; and behold, every form of creeping things, and abominable beasts, and all the idols of the house of Israel, portrayed upon the wall all around.  
And there stood before them seventy men of the elders of the house of Israel, and in the midst of them stood Jaazaniah the son of Shaphan, with each man having his censer in his hand; and a thick cloud of incense went up.  
Then he said to me, Son of man, have you seen what the elders of the house of Israel do in the dark, every man in the chambers of his imagery? For they say, the LORD does not see us; the LORD has forsaken the earth.  
He also said to me, Turn again, and you shall see greater abominations that they do.  
Then he brought me to the door of the gate of the LORD's house which was toward the north; and behold, there sat women weeping for Tammuz.  
Then he said to me, Have you seen this, O son of man? Turn again, and you shall see greater abominations than these.  
And he brought me into the inner court of the LORD's house, and behold, at the door of the temple of the LORD, between the porch and the altar, were about twenty-five men, with their backs toward the temple of the LORD, and their faces toward the east; and they worshipped the sun toward the east.  
Then he said to me, Have you seen this, O son of man? Is it a trivial thing for the house of Judah that they commit the abominations which they commit here? For they have filled the land with violence, and have returned to provoke me to anger: and behold, they put the branch to their nose.  
Therefore, I will also act in fury: my eye will not spare, nor will I have pity: and though they cry in my ears with a loud voice, yet I will not hear them.