And it came to pass in the twelfth year, in the twelfth month, on the first day of the month, that the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
"Son of man, take up a lamentation for Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and say to him, 'You are like a young lion among the nations, and you are like a whale in the seas: you came forth with your rivers, troubled the waters with your feet, and fouled their rivers.'
Thus says the Lord GOD: 'I will therefore spread my net over you with a company of many people; and they shall bring you up in my net.'
Then I will leave you on the land; I will cast you forth upon the open field, and cause all the birds of the heavens to settle on you, and I will fill the beasts of the whole earth with you.
I will lay your flesh upon the mountains, and fill the valleys with your height.
I will also water the land where you swim with your blood, even to the mountains; and the rivers shall be full of you.
And when I put you out, I will cover the heavens and make their stars dark; I will cover the sun with a cloud, and the moon shall not give her light.
All the bright lights of heaven will I make dark over you, and set darkness upon your land, says the Lord GOD.
I will also trouble the hearts of many people when I bring your destruction among the nations, into the countries which you have not known.
Yes, I will make many people amazed at you, and their kings shall be horribly afraid for you, when I brandish my sword before them; and they shall tremble at every moment, every man for his own life, in the day of your fall.
For thus says the Lord GOD: 'The sword of the king of Babylon shall come upon you.'
By the swords of the mighty will I cause your multitude to fall, the terrible of the nations, all of them; and they shall spoil the pomp of Egypt, and all its multitude shall be destroyed.
I will also destroy all its beasts from beside the great waters; neither shall the foot of man trouble them anymore, nor the hooves of beasts trouble them.
Then I will make their waters deep, and cause their rivers to run like oil, says the Lord GOD.
When I make the land of Egypt desolate, and the country shall be destitute of that which it was full, when I smite all those who dwell therein, then they shall know that I am the LORD.
This is the lamentation with which they shall lament her: the daughters of the nations shall lament her; they shall lament for her, even for Egypt, and for all her multitude, says the Lord GOD.
It came to pass also in the twelfth year, on the fifteenth day of the month, that the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
"Son of man, wail for the multitude of Egypt, and cast them down, even her, and the daughters of the famous nations, to the nether parts of the earth, with those who go down into the pit.
Whom do you surpass in beauty? Go down, and be laid with the uncircumcised.
They shall fall in the midst of those slain by the sword; she is delivered to the sword: draw her and all her multitudes.
The strong among the mighty shall speak to him out of the midst of hell, with those who help him: they have gone down, they lie uncircumcised, slain by the sword.
Asshur is there and all her company; his graves are around him: all of them slain, fallen by the sword.
Whose graves are set in the sides of the pit, and her company is round about her grave: all of them slain, fallen by the sword, which caused terror in the land of the living.
There is Elam and all her multitude around her grave, all of them slain, fallen by the sword, who have gone down uncircumcised into the nether parts of the earth, which caused their terror in the land of the living; yet they have borne their shame with those who go down to the pit.
They have set her a bed in the midst of the slain with all her multitude; her graves are around him: all of them uncircumcised, slain by the sword; though their terror was caused in the land of the living, yet they have borne their shame with those who go down to the pit: he is put in the midst of those who are slain.
There is Meshech, Tubal, and all her multitude; her graves are around him: all of them uncircumcised, slain by the sword, though they caused their terror in the land of the living.
And they shall not lie with the mighty who have fallen among the uncircumcised, who have gone down to hell with their weapons of war; and they have laid their swords under their heads, but their iniquities shall be upon their bones, though they were the terror of the mighty in the land of the living.
Yes, you shall be broken in the midst of the uncircumcised, and shall lie with those slain by the sword.
There is Edom, her kings, and all her princes, who with their might are laid by those slain by the sword; they shall lie with the uncircumcised, and with those who go down to the pit.
There are the princes of the north, all of them, and all the Zidonians, who have gone down with the slain; with their terror, they are ashamed of their might; and they lie uncircumcised with those slain by the sword, and bear their shame with those who go down to the pit.
Pharaoh shall see them, and shall be comforted over all his multitude, even Pharaoh and all his army slain by the sword, says the Lord GOD.
For I have caused my terror in the land of the living; and he shall be laid in the midst of the uncircumcised with those slain by the sword, even Pharaoh and all his multitude, says the Lord GOD.
