Jesus went to the Mount of Olives.
Early in the morning, he returned to the temple, and all the people gathered around him; he sat down and taught them.
The scribes and Pharisees brought a woman caught in adultery and placed her in the center.
They said to him, "Teacher, this woman was caught in the act of adultery."
Moses in the law commanded us to stone such women; what do you say?
They said this to test him, so they could have grounds for accusing him. But Jesus bent down and wrote on the ground, pretending not to hear them.
As they kept questioning him, he stood up and said to them, "Let any one of you who is without sin be the first to throw a stone at her."
Again, he bent down and wrote on the ground.
Those who heard this were convicted by their conscience and left one by one, starting with the oldest, until only Jesus was left with the woman standing there.
When Jesus stood up and saw no one but the woman, he asked her, "Woman, where are your accusers? Has no one condemned you?"
She replied, "No one, Lord." Jesus said, "Neither do I condemn you. Go and sin no more."
Then Jesus spoke again to them, saying, "I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will never walk in darkness but will have the light of life."
The Pharisees said to him, "You are testifying about yourself; your testimony is not valid."
Jesus answered, "Even if I testify about myself, my testimony is valid, for I know where I came from and where I am going. But you cannot tell where I come from or where I am going.
You judge by human standards; I pass judgment on no one.
But if I do judge, my decisions are true, because I am not alone. I stand with the Father, who sent me.
In your own Law, it is written that the testimony of two witnesses is true.
I am one who testifies for myself; my other witness is the Father, who sent me."
Then they asked him, "Where is your father?" Jesus replied, "You do not know me or my Father. If you knew me, you would know my Father also."
He spoke these words in the temple courts, near the place where the offerings were put. Yet no one seized him, because his hour had not yet come.
He said to them, "I am going away, and you will look for me, and you will die in your sin. Where I go, you cannot come."
The Jews said, "Will he kill himself? Is that why he says, 'Where I go, you cannot come'?"
But he said to them, "You are from below; I am from above. You are of this world; I am not of this world.
I told you that you would die in your sins; if you do not believe that I am he, you will indeed die in your sins."
"Who are you?" they asked. "Just what I have been telling you from the beginning," Jesus replied.
"I have much to say in judgment of you. But he who sent me is trustworthy, and what I have heard from him I tell the world."
They did not understand that he was telling them about his Father.
So Jesus said, "When you have lifted up the Son of Man, then you will know that I am he and that I do nothing on my own but speak just what the Father has taught me.
The one who sent me is with me; he has not left me alone, for I always do what pleases him."
Even as he spoke, many believed in him.
To the Jews who had believed him, Jesus said, "If you hold to my teaching, you are really my disciples.
Then you will know the truth, and the truth will set you free."
They answered him, "We are Abraham's descendants and have never been slaves of anyone. How can you say that we shall be set free?"
Jesus replied, "Very truly I tell you, everyone who sins is a slave to sin.
Now a slave has no permanent place in the family, but a son belongs to it forever.
So if the Son sets you free, you will be free indeed.
I know that you are Abraham's descendants. Yet you are looking for a way to kill me because you have no room for my word.
I am telling you what I have seen in the Father's presence, and you are doing what you have heard from your father."
"We are Abraham's children," they answered. "If you were Abraham's children," said Jesus, "then you would do what Abraham did.
As it is, you are looking for a way to kill me, a man who has told you the truth that I heard from God. Abraham did not do such things.
You are doing the works of your own father." "We are not illegitimate children," they protested. "The only Father we have is God himself."
Jesus said to them, "If God were your Father, you would love me, for I have come here from God. I have not come on my own; God sent me.
Why is my language not clear to you? Because you are unable to hear what I say.
You belong to your father, the devil, and you want to carry out your father's desires. He was a murderer from the beginning, not holding to the truth, for there is no truth in him. When he lies, he speaks his native language, for he is a liar and the father of lies.
Yet because I tell the truth, you do not believe me!
Can any of you prove me guilty of sin? If I am telling the truth, why don't you believe me?
Whoever belongs to God hears what God says. The reason you do not hear is that you do not belong to God."
The Jews answered him, "Aren't we right in saying that you are a Samaritan and demon-possessed?"
"I am not possessed by a demon," said Jesus, "but I honor my Father and you dishonor me.
I am not seeking glory for myself; but there is one who seeks it, and he is the judge.
Very truly I tell you, whoever obeys my word will never see death."
At this they exclaimed, "Now we know that you are demon-possessed! Abraham died and so did the prophets, yet you say that whoever obeys your word will never taste death.
Are you greater than our father Abraham? He died, and so did the prophets. Who do you think you are?"
Jesus replied, "If I glorify myself, my glory means nothing. My Father, whom you claim as your God, is the one who glorifies me.
Though you do not know him, I know him. If I said I did not, I would be a liar like you, but I do know him and obey his word.
Your father Abraham rejoiced at the thought of seeing my day; he saw it and was glad."
"You are not yet fifty years old," they said to him, "and you have seen Abraham!"
"Very truly I tell you," Jesus answered, "before Abraham was born, I am!"
At this, they picked up stones to stone him, but Jesus hid himself, slipping away from the temple grounds.
