And God blessed Noah and his sons, saying to them, "Be fruitful, multiply, and fill the earth."  
The fear and dread of you will be upon every beast of the earth, every bird of the air, all that moves on the ground, and all the fish of the sea; they are delivered into your hands.  
Every living creature that moves shall be food for you; just as I have given you the green herbs, I give you all things.  
However, you must not eat flesh with the lifeblood still in it.  
Indeed, I will require a reckoning for your lifeblood; I will hold every beast accountable and also require it from man; I will demand an accounting from every man's brother for the life of man.  
Whoever sheds man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed; for in the image of God, He made man.  
And you, be fruitful and multiply; fill the earth abundantly and increase in it.  
And God spoke to Noah and his sons with him, saying,  
"Behold, I establish my covenant with you and your descendants after you;  
and with every living creature that is with you, including birds, livestock, and every beast of the earth with you; from all that come out of the ark to every beast of the earth.  
I will establish my covenant with you; never again will all flesh be cut off by the waters of a flood, nor will there ever again be a flood to destroy the earth."  
And God said, "This is the sign of the covenant I make between me and you and every living creature with you, for all generations to come:  
I set my rainbow in the cloud, and it will be a sign of the covenant between me and the earth.  
Whenever I bring clouds over the earth, the rainbow will appear in the cloud;  
and I will remember my covenant between me and you and every living creature of all flesh; the waters will never again become a flood to destroy all flesh.  
The rainbow will be in the cloud, and I will look upon it to remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living creature of all flesh on the earth."  
And God said to Noah, "This is the sign of the covenant I have established between me and all flesh on the earth."  
The sons of Noah who came out of the ark were Shem, Ham, and Japheth; Ham is the father of Canaan.  
These are the three sons of Noah, and from them, the whole earth was populated.  
Noah began to cultivate the ground and planted a vineyard.  
He drank of the wine, became drunk, and lay uncovered in his tent.  
Ham, the father of Canaan, saw his father's nakedness and told his two brothers outside.  
Shem and Japheth took a garment, laid it across their shoulders, walked backward, and covered their father's nakedness; their faces were turned away, and they did not see their father's nakedness.  
When Noah awoke from his wine, he knew what his younger son had done to him.  
He said, "Cursed be Canaan; a servant of servants shall he be to his brothers."  
He also said, "Blessed be the LORD God of Shem; may Canaan be his servant.  
God will enlarge Japheth, and he will dwell in the tents of Shem; and Canaan will be his servant."  
Noah lived three hundred and fifty years after the flood.  
The total lifespan of Noah was nine hundred and fifty years, and then he died.