And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Again, you shall say to the children of Israel, Whoever he may be among the children of Israel, or among the strangers who sojourn in Israel, that gives any of his offspring to Molech; he shall surely be put to death: the people of the land shall stone him with stones.
And I will set my face against that man, and will cut him off from among his people; because he has given of his offspring to Molech, to defile my sanctuary, and to profane my holy name.
And if the people of the land hide their eyes from that man when he gives of his offspring to Molech, and do not kill him:
Then I will set my face against that man, and against his family, and will cut him off, and all who go a-whoring after him, to commit whoredom with Molech, from among their people.
And the soul that turns after those who have familiar spirits, and after wizards, to go a-whoring after them, I will set my face against that soul, and will cut him off from among his people.
Sanctify yourselves therefore, and be holy: for I am the LORD your God.
And you shall keep my statutes, and do them: I am the LORD who sanctifies you.
For everyone who curses his father or his mother shall surely be put to death: he has cursed his father or his mother; his blood shall be upon him.
And the man who commits adultery with another man's wife, even he who commits adultery with his neighbor's wife, the adulterer and the adulteress shall surely be put to death.
And the man who lies with his father's wife has uncovered his father's nakedness: both of them shall surely be put to death; their blood shall be upon them.
And if a man lies with his daughter-in-law, both of them shall surely be put to death: they have wrought confusion; their blood shall be upon them.
If a man also lies with mankind, as he lies with a woman, both of them have committed an abomination: they shall surely be put to death; their blood shall be upon them.
And if a man takes a wife and her mother, it is wickedness: they shall be burned with fire, both he and they; that there be no wickedness among you.
And if a man lies with a beast, he shall surely be put to death: and you shall slay the beast.
And if a woman approaches any beast and lies down with it, you shall kill the woman and the beast: they shall surely be put to death; their blood shall be upon them.
And if a man takes his sister, his father's daughter, or his mother's daughter, and sees her nakedness, and she sees his nakedness; it is a wicked thing; and they shall be cut off in the sight of their people: he has uncovered his sister's nakedness; he shall bear his iniquity.
And if a man lies with a woman during her sickness, and uncovers her nakedness; he has discovered her fountain, and she has uncovered the fountain of her blood: and both of them shall be cut off from among their people.
And you shall not uncover the nakedness of your mother's sister, nor of your father's sister: for he uncovers his near kin; they shall bear their iniquity.
And if a man lies with his uncle's wife, he has uncovered his uncle's nakedness: they shall bear their sin; they shall die childless.
And if a man takes his brother's wife, it is an unclean thing: he has uncovered his brother's nakedness; they shall be childless.
You shall therefore keep all my statutes, and all my judgments, and do them: that the land, where I bring you to dwell, does not spue you out.
And you shall not walk in the manners of the nation, which I cast out before you: for they committed all these things, and therefore I abhorred them.
But I have said to you, You shall inherit their land, and I will give it to you to possess it, a land that flows with milk and honey: I am the LORD your God, who has separated you from other people.
You shall therefore make a distinction between clean beasts and unclean, and between unclean birds and clean: and you shall not make your souls abominable by beast, or by bird, or by any manner of living thing that creeps on the ground, which I have separated from you as unclean.
And you shall be holy unto me: for I the LORD am holy, and have severed you from other people, that you should be mine.
A man or woman who has a familiar spirit, or who is a wizard, shall surely be put to death: they shall be stoned with stones: their blood shall be upon them.
