Now we implore you, dear brethren, by the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, and by our gathering together unto Him,  
That you be not easily shaken in mind, or troubled, neither by spirit, nor by word, nor by letter as if from us, as though the day of Christ is at hand.  
Let no one deceive you by any means: for that day shall not come, except there be a falling away first, and that man of sin be revealed, the son of perdition;  
Who opposes and exalts himself above all that is called God, or that is worshipped; so that he, as God, sits in the temple of God, showing himself that he is God.  
Do you not remember that when I was yet with you, I told you these things?  
And now you know what restrains him, that he might be revealed in his time.  
For the mystery of iniquity is already at work: only he who now restrains will do so until he is taken out of the way.  
And then shall that Wicked one be revealed, whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of His mouth, and shall destroy with the brightness of His coming:  
Even him, whose coming is after the working of Satan with all power and signs and lying wonders,  
And with all deceivableness of unrighteousness in those who perish; because they did not receive the love of the truth, that they might be saved.  
And for this reason, God shall send them strong delusion, that they should believe a lie:  
That they all might be condemned who did not believe the truth, but took pleasure in unrighteousness.  
But we are obligated to give thanks always to God for you, beloved brethren of the Lord, because God has from the beginning chosen you for salvation through sanctification of the Spirit and belief in the truth:  
To which He called you by our gospel, to the obtaining of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.  
Therefore, brethren, stand firm, and hold the traditions which you have been taught, whether by word or by our epistle.  
Now our Lord Jesus Christ Himself, and God, even our Father, who has loved us, and has given us everlasting consolation and good hope through grace,  
Comfort your hearts, and establish you in every good word and work.