Hold not your peace, O God of my praise;  
For the mouths of the wicked and the deceitful are opened against me; they have spoken against me with a lying tongue.  
They surrounded me with words of hatred and fought against me without cause.  
For my love, they have become my adversaries; but I dedicate myself to prayer.  
They have rewarded me with evil for good and hatred for my love.  
Set a wicked man over him, and let Satan stand at his right hand.  
When he is judged, let him be condemned, and let his prayer become sin.  
Let his days be few, and let another take his position.  
Let his children be fatherless, and his wife a widow.  
Let his children be continually wandering and begging; let them seek their bread from desolate places.  
Let the extortioner seize all that he has, and let strangers plunder his labor.  
Let there be none to extend mercy to him, nor anyone to favor his fatherless children.  
Let his posterity be cut off, and in the following generation, let their name be blotted out.  
Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered before the LORD, and let not the sin of his mother be erased.  
Let them be before the LORD continually, that He may cut off their memory from the earth.  
Because he did not remember to show mercy but persecuted the poor and needy, seeking to slay the brokenhearted.  
As he loved cursing, let it come upon him; as he did not delight in blessing, let it be far from him.  
As he clothed himself with cursing like a garment, let it enter his bowels like water and like oil into his bones.  
Let it be to him as the garment that covers him and as a belt with which he is continually girded.  
Let this be the reward of my adversaries from the LORD, and of those who speak evil against my soul.  
But do for me, O GOD the Lord, for Your name's sake; because Your mercy is good, deliver me.  
For I am poor and needy, and my heart is wounded within me.  
I have faded like a shadow when it declines; I am tossed up and down like a locust.  
My knees are weak through fasting, and my flesh fails from lack of fatness.  
I have become a reproach to them; when they look upon me, they shake their heads.  
Help me, O LORD my God; O save me according to Your mercy,  
That they may know that this is Your hand, that You, LORD, have done it.  
Let them curse, but bless You; when they arise, let them be ashamed, but let Your servant rejoice.  
Let my adversaries be clothed with shame, and let them cover themselves with their own confusion as with a mantle.  
I will greatly praise the LORD with my mouth; yes, I will praise Him among the multitude.  
For He shall stand at the right hand of the poor, to save him from those who condemn his soul.