The children of Israel once again did evil in the sight of the LORD, and as a result, the LORD handed them over to the Philistines for forty years.  
There was a certain man from Zorah, belonging to the family of the Danites, named Manoah; his wife was unable to have children.  
The angel of the LORD appeared to the woman and said, "Behold, you are barren and have not borne a child, but you will conceive and give birth to a son."  
Therefore, be careful not to drink wine or strong drink, and do not eat anything unclean.  
For you will conceive and give birth to a son, and no razor shall touch his head, for the child will be a Nazarite to God from birth, and he will begin to deliver Israel from the Philistines.  
The woman hurried and told her husband, saying, "A man of God came to me, and his appearance was like that of an angel of God, very awesome. I did not ask him where he was from, and he did not tell me his name."  
But he said to me, "You will conceive and give birth to a son; now be sure not to drink wine or strong drink, and do not eat anything unclean, for the child will be a Nazarite to God from birth until the day of his death."  
Then Manoah prayed to the LORD, saying, "O my Lord, please let the man of God whom you sent come to us again and teach us what we should do for the child who is to be born."  
God listened to Manoah's voice, and the angel of God came again to the woman while she was in the field; but Manoah her husband was not with her.  
The woman ran quickly and told her husband, "Look, the man who came to me the other day has appeared to me!"  
Manoah got up and followed his wife, and when he came to the man, he asked, "Are you the man who spoke to the woman?" He replied, "I am."  
Manoah said, "Now let your words come to pass. What shall we do for the child?"  
The angel of the LORD said to Manoah, "Of all that I told the woman, let her be careful.  
She must not eat anything that comes from the vine, nor drink wine or strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing; all that I commanded her, let her observe."  
Manoah said to the angel of the LORD, "Please let us detain you until we prepare a young goat for you."  
The angel of the LORD said to Manoah, "Even if you detain me, I will not eat your food; but if you offer a burnt offering, you must offer it to the LORD." Manoah did not realize that he was an angel of the LORD.  
Manoah asked the angel of the LORD, "What is your name, so that when your words come to pass, we may honor you?"  
The angel of the LORD replied, "Why do you ask my name, seeing it is wonderful?"  
So Manoah took a young goat with a grain offering and offered it on a rock to the LORD; and the angel did wondrously, and Manoah and his wife watched.  
As the flame went up toward heaven from the altar, the angel of the LORD ascended in the flame of the altar. Manoah and his wife watched and fell on their faces to the ground.  
The angel of the LORD did not appear again to Manoah and his wife. Then Manoah realized that he was an angel of the LORD.  
Manoah said to his wife, "We will surely die, because we have seen God."  
But his wife said to him, "If the LORD had intended to kill us, He would not have accepted a burnt offering and a grain offering from our hands, nor would He have shown us all these things, nor would He have told us such things at this time."  
The woman gave birth to a son and named him Samson; the child grew, and the LORD blessed him.  
The Spirit of the LORD began to stir him at times in the camp of Dan, between Zorah and Eshtaol.