And the LORD spoke to Moses, saying,
Speak to the children of Israel, and tell them, I am the LORD your God.
You shall not follow the practices of the land of Egypt, where you lived, nor the practices of the land of Canaan, to which I am bringing you; you shall not walk in their statutes.
You shall observe my judgments and keep my ordinances, to walk in them: I am the LORD your God.
Therefore, you shall keep my statutes and my judgments; if a person does them, they shall live by them: I am the LORD.
None of you shall approach anyone who is near of kin to uncover their nakedness: I am the LORD.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father or the nakedness of your mother; she is your mother; you shall not uncover her nakedness.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's wife; it is your father's nakedness.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your sister, whether she is the daughter of your father or the daughter of your mother, born at home or abroad; you shall not uncover their nakedness.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your son's daughter or your daughter's daughter; you shall not uncover their nakedness, for they are your own nakedness.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's wife's daughter, begotten by your father; she is your sister; you shall not uncover her nakedness.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's sister; she is your father's near kinswoman.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your mother's sister; for she is your mother's near kinswoman.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your father's brother; you shall not approach his wife; she is your aunt.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your daughter-in-law; she is your son's wife; you shall not uncover her nakedness.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of your brother's wife; it is your brother's nakedness.
You shall not uncover the nakedness of a woman and her daughter, nor shall you take her son's daughter or her daughter's daughter to uncover her nakedness; for they are her near kinswomen; it is wickedness.
You shall not take a wife to her sister, to cause her distress, to uncover her nakedness beside the other during her lifetime.
You shall not approach a woman to uncover her nakedness while she is in her menstrual impurity.
You shall not lie carnally with your neighbor's wife, to defile yourself with her.
You shall not let any of your offspring pass through the fire to Molech, nor shall you profane the name of your God: I am the LORD.
You shall not lie with a man as with a woman; it is an abomination.
You shall not lie with any beast to defile yourself; nor shall any woman stand before a beast to lie down with it; it is confusion.
Do not defile yourselves in any of these ways; for in all these practices, the nations that I am casting out before you have defiled themselves.
And the land is defiled; therefore, I visit the iniquity upon it, and the land itself vomits out its inhabitants.
You shall therefore keep my statutes and my judgments, and shall not commit any of these abominations, neither you nor any stranger who dwells among you.
(For all these abominations have been done by the people of the land who were before you, and the land is defiled.)
So that the land does not spew you out also when you defile it, as it spewed out the nations that were before you.
For whoever commits any of these abominations, the souls that commit them shall be cut off from among their people.
Therefore, you shall keep my ordinance, so that you do not commit any of these abominable customs that were committed before you, and that you do not defile yourselves in them: I am the LORD your God.
