Call now, if there is anyone who will answer you; and to which of the saints will you turn?
For wrath kills the foolish man, and envy slays the simple one.
I have seen the foolish take root, but suddenly I cursed his dwelling.
His children are far from safety; they are crushed at the gate, and there is no one to deliver them.
Whose harvest the hungry consume, taking it even from the thorns, and the robber devours their substance.
Although affliction does not arise from the dust, nor does trouble spring from the ground;
Yet man is born to trouble, as sparks fly upward.
I would seek God, and to God I would commit my cause:
Who does great and unsearchable things, marvelous things without number:
Who gives rain upon the earth and sends waters upon the fields:
To lift up those who are low, that those who mourn may be exalted to safety.
He frustrates the plans of the crafty, so that their hands cannot carry out their schemes.
He catches the wise in their own craftiness, and the counsel of the devious is brought to nothing.
They encounter darkness in the daytime and grope at noon as if it were night.
But He saves the poor from the sword, from their mouth, and from the hand of the mighty.
So the poor have hope, and iniquity shuts her mouth.
Behold, happy is the man whom God corrects; therefore do not despise the chastening of the Almighty:
For He wounds, but He also binds up; He injures, and His hands heal.
He will deliver you in six troubles; yes, in seven no evil shall touch you.
In famine, He will redeem you from death, and in war from the power of the sword.
You shall be hidden from the scourge of the tongue, nor shall you be afraid of destruction when it comes.
At destruction and famine, you shall laugh; neither shall you be afraid of the beasts of the earth.
For you shall be in league with the stones of the field, and the beasts of the field shall be at peace with you.
And you shall know that your tent is in peace; you shall visit your dwelling and not sin.
You shall also know that your offspring shall be great, and your descendants like the grass of the earth.
You shall come to your grave in a full age, like a shock of grain comes in its season.
Lo, this we have searched out; it is true. Hear it, and know it for your good.
