The vision of Isaiah, son of Amoz, which he received regarding Judah and Jerusalem during the reigns of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah.
Listen, O heavens, and pay attention, O earth: for the LORD has spoken. I have nurtured and raised children, but they have rebelled against me.
The ox knows its owner, and the donkey its master's feeding trough; but Israel does not know, my people do not understand.
Ah, sinful nation, a people burdened with iniquity, a brood of evildoers, children who are corruptors: they have forsaken the LORD, they have provoked the Holy One of Israel to anger, they have turned away backward.
Why should you be struck anymore? You will only continue to rebel: the whole head is sick, and the whole heart is faint.
From the sole of the foot to the head, there is no soundness in it; only wounds, bruises, and festering sores: they have not been treated, nor bound up, nor soothed with ointment.
Your country is desolate, your cities are burned with fire: your land is devoured by strangers in your presence, and it is desolate, like a city overthrown by invaders.
And the daughter of Zion is left like a hut in a vineyard, like a lodge in a cucumber garden, like a besieged city.
Unless the LORD of hosts had left us a very small remnant, we would have been like Sodom, and we would have been like Gomorrah.
Hear the word of the LORD, you rulers of Sodom; give ear to the law of our God, you people of Gomorrah.
What is the purpose of the multitude of your sacrifices to me? says the LORD: I am full of the burnt offerings of rams, and the fat of well-fed beasts; I do not delight in the blood of bulls, or of lambs, or of goats.
When you come to appear before me, who has required this from your hand, to trample my courts?
Bring no more worthless offerings; incense is an abomination to me; your new moons and sabbaths, the calling of assemblies, I cannot endure; it is iniquity, even the solemn meeting.
Your new moons and your appointed feasts my soul hates: they are a burden to me; I am weary of bearing them.
And when you spread out your hands, I will hide my eyes from you: yes, when you make many prayers, I will not listen: your hands are full of blood.
Wash yourselves, make yourselves clean; remove the evil of your deeds from before my eyes; cease to do evil;
Learn to do good; seek justice, relieve the oppressed, defend the fatherless, plead for the widow.
Come now, and let us reason together, says the LORD: though your sins are like scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they are red like crimson, they shall be like wool.
If you are willing and obedient, you shall eat the good of the land;
But if you refuse and rebel, you shall be devoured by the sword: for the mouth of the LORD has spoken.
How has the faithful city become a harlot! It was full of justice; righteousness dwelt in it; but now murderers.
Your silver has become dross, your wine is mixed with water.
Your princes are rebellious, and companions of thieves: everyone loves gifts and follows after rewards: they do not judge the fatherless, nor does the cause of the widow come before them.
Therefore says the LORD, the LORD of hosts, the Mighty One of Israel, Ah, I will rid myself of my adversaries, and avenge myself on my enemies:
And I will turn my hand against you, and thoroughly purge away your dross, and remove all your impurities:
And I will restore your judges as at the first, and your counselors as at the beginning: afterward you shall be called, The city of righteousness, the faithful city.
Zion shall be redeemed with justice, and her converts with righteousness.
And the destruction of the transgressors and of the sinners shall be together, and those who forsake the LORD shall be consumed.
For they shall be ashamed of the oaks which you have desired, and you shall be confounded for the gardens that you have chosen.
For you shall be like an oak whose leaf withers, and like a garden that has no water.
And the strong shall be like tow, and the maker of it like a spark, and they shall both burn together, and none shall quench them.
