The righteous perish, and no one takes it to heart; merciful individuals are taken away, with no one considering that the righteous are removed from the impending evil.  
He shall enter into peace; they shall rest in their beds, each one walking in their integrity.  
But draw near here, you sons of the sorceress, the offspring of the adulterer and the harlot.  
Against whom do you mock yourselves? Against whom do you make a wide mouth and stick out your tongue? Are you not children of transgression, a seed of falsehood?  
Enflaming yourselves with idols under every green tree, sacrificing children in the valleys beneath the cliffs of the rocks?  
Among the smooth stones of the stream is your portion; they are your lot: to them you have poured a drink offering, and you have offered a grain offering. Should I take comfort in these?  
On a lofty and high mountain, you have set your bed; even there you went up to offer sacrifice.  
Behind the doors and the posts, you have set up your remembrance; for you have uncovered yourself to another besides me and have gone up; you have enlarged your bed and made a covenant with them; you loved their bed when you saw it.  
And you went to the king with ointment, increased your perfumes, sent your messengers far away, and debased yourself even to the depths.  
You are wearied in the greatness of your ways; yet you did not say, "There is no hope." You have found the life of your hand; therefore, you were not grieved.  
And of whom have you been afraid or feared, that you have lied and not remembered me, nor laid it to your heart? Have I not held my peace even from of old, and you do not fear me?  
I will declare your righteousness and your works; for they will not benefit you.  
When you cry out, let your companies deliver you; but the wind will carry them all away; vanity will take them: but he who puts his trust in me shall possess the land and inherit my holy mountain.  
And they shall say, "Lift up, lift up, prepare the way, remove the stumbling block from the way of my people."  
For thus says the high and lofty One who inhabits eternity, whose name is Holy; I dwell in the high and holy place, with him also who is of a contrite and humble spirit, to revive the spirit of the humble and to revive the heart of the contrite ones.  
For I will not contend forever, nor will I always be angry; for the spirit would fail before me, and the souls which I have made.  
For the iniquity of his covetousness, I was angry and struck him; I hid myself and was angry, and he went on stubbornly in the way of his heart.  
I have seen his ways and will heal him; I will lead him and restore comforts to him and to his mourners.  
I create the fruit of the lips; "Peace, peace to him who is far off and to him who is near," says the LORD; "and I will heal him."  
But the wicked are like the troubled sea, which cannot rest, whose waters cast up mire and dirt.  
There is no peace, says my God, for the wicked.