The words of Jeremiah, son of Hilkiah, one of the priests in Anathoth, located in the land of Benjamin:
To whom the word of the LORD came during the reign of Josiah, son of Amon, king of Judah, in the thirteenth year of his rule.
It also came during the reign of Jehoiakim, son of Josiah, king of Judah, until the end of the eleventh year of Zedekiah, son of Josiah, king of Judah, leading to the exile of Jerusalem in the fifth month.
Then the word of the LORD came to me, saying,
"Before I formed you in the womb, I knew you; and before you were born, I set you apart and appointed you as a prophet to the nations."
I responded, "Ah, Lord GOD! I cannot speak, for I am just a child."
But the LORD said to me, "Do not say, 'I am a child,' for you must go to everyone I send you to and say whatever I command you."
"Do not be afraid of them, for I am with you and will rescue you," declares the LORD.
Then the LORD reached out his hand and touched my mouth. The LORD said to me, "I have put my words in your mouth."
"See, today I appoint you over nations and kingdoms to uproot and tear down, to destroy and overthrow, to build and to plant."
Moreover, the word of the LORD came to me, saying, "Jeremiah, what do you see?" I replied, "I see a branch of an almond tree."
The LORD said to me, "You have seen correctly, for I am watching to see that my word is fulfilled."
Then the word of the LORD came to me a second time, saying, "What do you see?" I answered, "I see a boiling pot, tilting away from the north."
The LORD said to me, "From the north disaster will be poured out on all who live in the land."
For I am calling all the families of the kingdoms of the north," declares the LORD. "They will come and set their thrones in the entrance of the gates of Jerusalem; they will come against all its surrounding walls and against all the towns of Judah."
"I will pronounce my judgments on my people because of their wickedness in forsaking me, in burning incense to other gods and in worshiping what their hands have made."
"So prepare yourself and stand up and say to them whatever I command you. Do not be terrified by them, or I will terrify you before them."
"Today I have made you a fortified city, an iron pillar, and a bronze wall to stand against the whole land—against the kings of Judah, its officials, its priests, and the people of the land."
"They will fight against you but will not overcome you, for I am with you to rescue you," declares the LORD.
