But now those younger than I mock me, whose fathers I would have scorned to sit with the dogs of my flock.  
Indeed, what could the strength of their hands offer me, when old age has consumed them?  
For want and famine, they were solitary; fleeing into the wilderness, once desolate and waste.  
They gathered mallows by the bushes and sought juniper roots for their food.  
They were driven away from among men; they cried out after them as if they were thieves.  
To dwell in the cliffs of the valleys, in caves of the earth, and among the rocks.  
Among the bushes, they brayed; under the nettles, they huddled together.  
They were the children of fools, yes, children of base men: they were more vile than the earth.  
And now I am their song; indeed, I am their byword.  
They abhor me, they flee far from me, and do not hesitate to spit in my face.  
Because He has loosened my cord and afflicted me, they have also let loose the bridle before me.  
On my right hand rise the youth; they push away my feet and raise against me the paths of their destruction.  
They mar my path, they advance my calamity; I have no helper.  
They came upon me like a sudden flood; in the desolation, they rolled over me.  
Terrors have turned upon me; they pursue my soul like the wind, and my well-being vanishes like a cloud.  
And now my soul is poured out within me; the days of affliction have seized me.  
My bones are pierced in the night season, and my sinews find no rest.  
By the great force of my disease, my garment is changed; it binds me like the collar of my coat.  
He has cast me into the mire, and I have become like dust and ashes.  
I cry out to You, and You do not hear me; I stand up, and You do not regard me.  
You have become cruel to me; with Your strong hand, You oppose Yourself against me.  
You lift me up to the wind; You cause me to ride upon it and dissolve my substance.  
For I know that You will bring me to death and to the house appointed for all living.  
However, He will not stretch out His hand to the grave, even though they cry out in His destruction.  
Did I not weep for him who was in trouble? Was not my soul grieved for the poor?  
When I looked for good, then evil came to me; and when I waited for light, darkness came.  
My insides boiled and found no rest; the days of affliction prevented me.  
I went mourning without the sun; I stood up and cried in the congregation.  
I am a brother to dragons and a companion to owls.  
My skin is black upon me, and my bones are scorched with heat.  
My harp has turned to mourning, and my organ into the voice of those who weep.