Bless the LORD, O my soul. O LORD my God, You are very great; You are clothed with honor and majesty.  
You cover Yourself with light as with a garment; You stretch out the heavens like a curtain.  
You lay the beams of Your chambers in the waters; You make the clouds Your chariot; You walk upon the wings of the wind.  
You make Your angels spirits; Your ministers a flaming fire.  
You laid the foundations of the earth, that it should not be removed forever.  
You covered it with the deep as with a garment; the waters stood above the mountains.  
At Your rebuke they fled; at the voice of Your thunder they hurried away.  
They go up by the mountains; they go down by the valleys to the place which You have founded for them.  
You have set a boundary that they may not pass over; that they do not return to cover the earth.  
You send the springs into the valleys, which run among the hills.  
They give drink to every beast of the field; the wild donkeys quench their thirst.  
By them the birds of the heavens have their habitation, singing among the branches.  
You water the hills from Your chambers; the earth is satisfied with the fruit of Your works.  
You cause the grass to grow for the cattle, and herbs for the service of man, that he may bring forth food from the earth;  
And wine that makes glad the heart of man, and oil to make his face shine, and bread which strengthens man's heart.  
The trees of the LORD are full of sap; the cedars of Lebanon, which You have planted.  
Where the birds make their nests; as for the stork, the fir trees are her house.  
The high hills are a refuge for the wild goats, and the rocks for the conies.  
You appointed the moon for seasons; the sun knows its going down.  
You make darkness, and it is night, when all the beasts of the forest creep forth.  
The young lions roar after their prey, and seek their food from God.  
The sun rises, they gather together, and lay down in their dens.  
Man goes forth to his work and to his labor until the evening.  
O LORD, how manifold are Your works! In wisdom You have made them all; the earth is full of Your riches.  
So is this great and wide sea, in which are things creeping innumerable, both small and great beasts.  
There go the ships; there is that leviathan, which You have made to play therein.  
These all wait upon You, that You may give them their food in due season.  
What You give them they gather; You open Your hand, they are filled with good.  
You hide Your face, they are troubled; You take away their breath, they die, and return to their dust.  
You send forth Your Spirit, they are created; and You renew the face of the earth.  
The glory of the LORD shall endure forever; the LORD shall rejoice in His works.  
He looks on the earth, and it trembles; He touches the hills, and they smoke.  
I will sing to the LORD as long as I live; I will sing praise to my God while I have my being.  
My meditation of Him shall be sweet; I will be glad in the LORD.  
Let sinners be consumed out of the earth, and let the wicked be no more. Bless the LORD, O my soul. Praise the LORD.