It is not wise for me to boast, but I will share the visions and revelations I have received from the Lord.  
I knew a man in Christ over fourteen years ago—whether in the body or out of the body, I cannot say; God knows—who was caught up to the third heaven.  
And I knew this man—whether in the body or out of the body, I cannot say; God knows—  
how he was caught up into paradise and heard unspeakable words that are not lawful for a man to express.  
Of such a one, I will boast; yet I will not boast in myself, but in my weaknesses.  
For although I desire to boast, I will not be a fool; I will speak the truth, but I refrain, so that no one may think more of me than what they see or hear from me.  
And to prevent me from being exalted beyond measure due to the abundance of revelations, a thorn in the flesh was given to me, a messenger of Satan to torment me, so that I would not be exalted beyond measure.  
Concerning this, I pleaded with the Lord three times for it to depart from me.  
And He said to me, "My grace is sufficient for you, for my strength is made perfect in weakness." Therefore, I will gladly boast in my weaknesses, so that the power of Christ may rest upon me.  
Thus, I take pleasure in weaknesses, in insults, in needs, in persecutions, in difficulties for Christ's sake; for when I am weak, then I am strong.  
I have become a fool in boasting; you have compelled me. For I ought to have been commended by you, for I am not inferior to the most eminent apostles, even though I am nothing.  
Truly, the signs of an apostle were performed among you with great perseverance, in signs, wonders, and mighty deeds.  
For what is it that you lacked compared to other churches, except that I myself was not a burden to you? Forgive me this wrong.  
Behold, I am ready to come to you for the third time, and I will not be a burden to you, for I seek not what is yours but you; for children ought not to lay up for their parents, but parents for their children.  
And I will gladly spend and be spent for you; although the more abundantly I love you, the less I am loved.  
But let it be so; I did not burden you. Nevertheless, being crafty, I caught you with deceit.  
Did I gain anything from you through any of those I sent to you?  
I urged Titus to visit you, and I sent a brother with him. Did Titus gain anything from you? Did we not walk in the same spirit? Did we not walk in the same steps?  
Again, do you think that we are excusing ourselves to you? We speak before God in Christ; but we do all things, beloved, for your edification.  
For I fear that when I come, I may not find you as I wish, and that you may not find me as you wish; lest there be debates, envy, anger, strife, gossip, arrogance, and disturbances.  
And I fear that when I come again, my God will humble me among you, and I will mourn for many who have sinned previously and have not repented of their impurity, sexual immorality, and debauchery that they have practiced.