Hear the word that the LORD speaks to you, O house of Israel:  
Thus says the LORD, do not learn the ways of the nations, and do not be alarmed by the signs in the heavens; for the nations are alarmed by them.  
For the customs of the people are futile: one cuts a tree from the forest, the work of the hands of the craftsman, with an axe.  
They adorn it with silver and gold; they secure it with nails and hammers, so it will not move.  
They are upright like a palm tree, but they do not speak; they must be carried, for they cannot walk. Do not be afraid of them; for they cannot do evil, nor is it within them to do good.  
For there is none like you, O LORD; you are great, and your name is great in power.  
Who would not fear you, O King of nations? For it is your due; for among all the wise men of the nations, and in all their kingdoms, there is none like you.  
But they are altogether brutish and foolish; the stock is a doctrine of vanities.  
Silver beaten into plates is brought from Tarshish, and gold from Uphaz, the work of the craftsman and the hands of the founder; blue and purple are their clothing; they are all the work of skilled men.  
But the LORD is the true God, he is the living God, and an everlasting king: at his wrath, the earth will tremble, and the nations will not be able to endure his indignation.  
Thus you shall say to them, The gods that did not make the heavens and the earth shall perish from the earth and from under these heavens.  
He made the earth by his power, he established the world by his wisdom, and he stretched out the heavens by his understanding.  
When he speaks, there is a multitude of waters in the heavens, and he causes the vapors to rise from the ends of the earth; he makes lightning with rain, and brings forth the wind from his treasures.  
Every man is brutish in his knowledge; every founder is confounded by the graven image; for his molten image is falsehood, and there is no breath in them.  
They are vanity, and the work of errors; in the time of their visitation, they shall perish.  
The portion of Jacob is not like them; for he is the former of all things; and Israel is the rod of his inheritance: The LORD of hosts is his name.  
Gather your goods out of the land, O inhabitant of the fortress.  
For thus says the LORD, Behold, I will throw out the inhabitants of the land at this time, and will distress them, so they may find it so.  
Woe is me for my hurt! My wound is grievous; but I said, Truly this is a grief, and I must bear it.  
My tent is ruined, and all my cords are broken; my children have gone from me, and they are no more; there is no one to stretch out my tent anymore, and to set up my curtains.  
For the shepherds have become brutish, and have not sought the LORD; therefore they shall not prosper, and all their flocks shall be scattered.  
Behold, the noise of the report has come, and a great commotion from the north country, to make the cities of Judah desolate, a den of dragons.  
O LORD, I know that the way of man is not in himself; it is not in man who walks to direct his steps.  
O LORD, correct me, but with justice; not in your anger, lest you bring me to nothing.  
Pour out your fury upon the nations that do not know you, and upon the families that do not call on your name; for they have devoured Jacob and consumed him, and made his dwelling desolate.