The word that came to Jeremiah regarding all the people of Judah in the fourth year of Jehoiakim, the son of Josiah, king of Judah, which was also the first year of Nebuchadnezzar, king of Babylon;  
Jeremiah the prophet spoke to all the people of Judah and to all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, saying,  
From the thirteenth year of Josiah, the son of Amon, king of Judah, until this day, which is the twenty-third year, the word of the LORD has come to me, and I have spoken to you, rising early and speaking; yet you have not listened.  
The LORD has sent to you all His servants, the prophets, rising early and sending them; but you have not listened, nor inclined your ear to hear.  
They said, "Turn now, every one of you, from your evil ways and from the evil of your deeds, and dwell in the land that the LORD has given to you and your fathers forever and ever.  
And do not go after other gods to serve and worship them, and do not provoke me to anger with the works of your hands; then I will do you no harm."  
Yet you have not listened to me, says the LORD; you have provoked me to anger with the works of your hands to your own detriment.  
Therefore, thus says the LORD of hosts: Because you have not heeded my words,  
Behold, I will send and take all the families of the north, says the LORD, and Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, my servant, and I will bring them against this land, its inhabitants, and all these nations around about; I will utterly destroy them, and make them an astonishment, a hissing, and perpetual desolations.  
Moreover, I will take away from them the voice of mirth, the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom, and the voice of the bride, the sound of the millstones, and the light of the candle.  
And this whole land shall be a desolation and an astonishment; and these nations shall serve the king of Babylon for seventy years.  
And it shall come to pass, when seventy years are accomplished, that I will punish the king of Babylon and that nation, says the LORD, for their iniquity, and the land of the Chaldeans; I will make it a perpetual desolation.  
I will bring upon that land all my words which I have pronounced against it, even all that is written in this book, which Jeremiah has prophesied against all the nations.  
For many nations and great kings shall serve themselves of them also; and I will recompense them according to their deeds and the works of their own hands.  
For thus says the LORD God of Israel unto me: Take this wine cup of fury from my hand and cause all the nations to whom I send you to drink it.  
And they shall drink, and be moved, and be mad because of the sword that I will send among them.  
Then I took the cup from the LORD's hand and made all the nations drink to whom the LORD had sent me:  
To wit, Jerusalem, the cities of Judah, their kings, and their princes, to make them a desolation, an astonishment, a hissing, and a curse, as it is this day;  
Pharaoh, king of Egypt, and his servants, his princes, and all his people;  
And all the mingled people, and all the kings of the land of Uz, and all the kings of the land of the Philistines, including Ashkelon, Azzah, Ekron, and the remnant of Ashdod,  
Edom, Moab, and the children of Ammon,  
And all the kings of Tyre, and all the kings of Sidon, and the kings of the isles that are beyond the sea,  
Dedan, Tema, Buz, and all that are in the utmost corners,  
And all the kings of Arabia, and all the kings of the mingled people that dwell in the desert,  
And all the kings of Zimri, and all the kings of Elam, and all the kings of the Medes,  
And all the kings of the north, far and near, one with another, and all the kingdoms of the world that are upon the face of the earth; and the king of Sheshach shall drink after them.  
Therefore, you shall say to them, Thus says the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel: Drink, and be drunken, and vomit, and fall, and rise no more, because of the sword which I will send among you.  
And it shall be, if they refuse to take the cup from your hand to drink, then you shall say to them, Thus says the LORD of hosts: You shall certainly drink.  
For behold, I begin to bring evil upon the city which is called by my name; and should you be utterly unpunished? You shall not be unpunished, for I will call for a sword upon all the inhabitants of the earth, says the LORD of hosts.  
Therefore, prophesy against them all these words, and say to them, The LORD shall roar from on high and utter His voice from His holy habitation; He shall mightily roar upon His habitation; He shall give a shout, as those who tread the grapes, against all the inhabitants of the earth.  
A noise shall come even to the ends of the earth; for the LORD has a controversy with the nations; He will plead with all flesh; He will give the wicked to the sword, says the LORD.  
Thus says the LORD of hosts: Behold, evil shall go forth from nation to nation, and a great whirlwind shall be raised up from the coasts of the earth.  
And the slain of the LORD shall be at that day from one end of the earth to the other; they shall not be lamented, neither gathered, nor buried; they shall be dung upon the ground.  
Howl, you shepherds, and cry; and wallow yourselves in the ashes, you leaders of the flock; for the days of your slaughter and dispersions are accomplished; and you shall fall like a desirable vessel.  
And the shepherds shall have no way to flee, nor the leaders of the flock to escape.  
A voice of the cry of the shepherds and a howling of the leaders of the flock shall be heard; for the LORD has spoiled their pasture.  
And the peaceful habitations are cut down because of the fierce anger of the LORD.  
He has forsaken His covert, like a lion; for their land is desolate because of the fierceness of the oppressor and because of His fierce anger.