Then Jesus was led by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil.  
After fasting for forty days and forty nights, he was hungry.  
When the tempter approached him, he said, "If you are the Son of God, command these stones to become bread."  
But Jesus replied, "It is written, 'Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth of God.'"  
Then the devil took him to the holy city and set him on the pinnacle of the temple.  
He said to him, "If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down; for it is written, 'He will command his angels concerning you,' and 'In their hands, they will bear you up, lest you strike your foot against a stone.'"  
Jesus responded, "It is also written, 'You shall not put the Lord your God to the test.'"  
Again, the devil took him to an exceedingly high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory.  
He said to him, "All these things I will give you if you will fall down and worship me."  
Then Jesus said to him, "Away with you, Satan! For it is written, 'You shall worship the Lord your God, and him only shall you serve.'"  
Then the devil left him, and behold, angels came and ministered to him.  
When Jesus heard that John had been imprisoned, he departed for Galilee.  
Leaving Nazareth, he settled in Capernaum, which is by the sea, in the region of Zebulun and Naphtali.  
This fulfilled what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah, saying,  
"The land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, by the way of the sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles;  
The people who sat in darkness have seen a great light, and for those who sat in the region and shadow of death, light has dawned."  
From that time, Jesus began to preach, saying, "Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand."  
As Jesus walked by the Sea of Galilee, he saw two brothers, Simon (called Peter) and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen.  
He said to them, "Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men."  
Immediately, they left their nets and followed him.  
Going on from there, he saw two other brothers, James the son of Zebedee and John his brother, in a boat with their father Zebedee, mending their nets; he called them.  
They immediately left the boat and their father and followed him.  
Jesus went throughout all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every disease and sickness among the people.  
His fame spread throughout all Syria, and they brought to him all the sick, those afflicted with various diseases and pains, the demon-possessed, the epileptics, and the paralytics; and he healed them.  
Great crowds followed him from Galilee, the Decapolis, Jerusalem, Judea, and beyond the Jordan.