These are the words that Moses spoke to all of Israel on this side of the Jordan, in the wilderness, in the plain opposite the Red Sea, between Paran, Tophel, Laban, Hazeroth, and Dizahab.
(There are eleven days' journey from Horeb by the way of Mount Seir to Kadeshbarnea.)
And it came to pass in the fortieth year, in the eleventh month, on the first day of the month, that Moses spoke to the children of Israel, according to all that the LORD had commanded him to say to them;
After he had defeated Sihon, the king of the Amorites, who dwelt in Heshbon, and Og, the king of Bashan, who dwelt at Astaroth in Edrei:
On this side of the Jordan, in the land of Moab, Moses began to declare this law, saying,
The LORD our God spoke to us at Horeb, saying, "You have dwelt long enough at this mountain:
Turn and take your journey, and go to the mountain of the Amorites, and to all the places near there, in the plain, in the hills, in the valley, in the south, and by the seashore, to the land of the Canaanites, and to Lebanon, to the great river, the river Euphrates.
Behold, I have set the land before you: go in and possess the land which the LORD swore to your fathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, to give to them and to their descendants after them.
And I spoke to you at that time, saying, "I am not able to bear you myself alone:
The LORD your God has multiplied you, and behold, you are this day as numerous as the stars of heaven.
(The LORD God of your fathers make you a thousand times more numerous than you are, and bless you, as He has promised you!)
How can I alone bear your burden, your strife, and your complaints?
Choose wise men, understanding and known among your tribes, and I will make them rulers over you.
And you answered me, and said, "The thing which you have spoken is good for us to do."
So I took the leaders of your tribes, wise men and known, and made them heads over you, captains over thousands, captains over hundreds, captains over fifties, captains over tens, and officers among your tribes.
And I charged your judges at that time, saying, "Hear the cases between your brethren, and judge righteously between every man and his brother, and the stranger who is with him.
You shall not show partiality in judgment; you shall hear the small as well as the great; you shall not be afraid of the face of man, for the judgment is God's: and the case that is too hard for you, bring it to me, and I will hear it.
And I commanded you at that time all the things which you should do.
And when we departed from Horeb, we went through all that great and terrible wilderness, which you saw by the way of the mountain of the Amorites, as the LORD our God commanded us; and we came to Kadeshbarnea.
And I said to you, "You have come to the mountain of the Amorites, which the LORD our God is giving to us.
Behold, the LORD your God has set the land before you: go up and possess it, as the LORD God of your fathers has said to you; do not fear, nor be discouraged."
And you all came near to me and said, "We will send men before us, and they shall search out the land, and bring us word again by what way we must go up, and into what cities we shall come."
And the saying pleased me well; so I took twelve men from among you, one from each tribe:
And they turned and went up into the mountain, and came to the valley of Eshcol, and searched it out.
And they took of the fruit of the land in their hands, and brought it down to us, and said, "It is a good land which the LORD our God is giving us."
Yet you would not go up, but rebelled against the commandment of the LORD your God:
And you murmured in your tents, and said, "Because the LORD hated us, He has brought us out of the land of Egypt, to deliver us into the hand of the Amorites, to destroy us.
Where shall we go up? Our brethren have discouraged our hearts, saying, 'The people are greater and taller than we; the cities are great and fortified up to heaven; and moreover, we have seen the sons of the Anakim there.'"
Then I said to you, "Do not dread, nor be afraid of them.
The LORD your God who goes before you, He shall fight for you, according to all that He did for you in Egypt before your eyes;
And in the wilderness, where you saw how the LORD your God bore you, as a man bears his son, in all the way that you went, until you came to this place.
Yet in this thing you did not believe the LORD your God,
Who went in the way before you, to search out a place for you to pitch your tents, in fire by night, to show you by what way you should go, and in a cloud by day.
And the LORD heard the voice of your words, and was angry, and swore, saying,
"Surely none of these men of this evil generation shall see that good land, which I swore to give to your fathers.
Except Caleb the son of Jephunneh; he shall see it, and to him will I give the land that he has trodden upon, and to his children, because he has wholly followed the LORD.
Also, the LORD was angry with me for your sakes, saying, 'You also shall not go in there.'
But Joshua the son of Nun, who stands before you, he shall go in there: encourage him, for he shall cause Israel to inherit it.
Moreover, your little ones, whom you said would be a prey, and your children, who in that day had no knowledge between good and evil, they shall go in there, and to them will I give it, and they shall possess it.
But as for you, turn and take your journey into the wilderness by the way of the Red Sea."
Then you answered and said to me, "We have sinned against the LORD; we will go up and fight, according to all that the LORD our God commanded us." And when you had girded on every man his weapons of war, you were ready to go up into the hill.
And the LORD said to me, "Say to them, 'Do not go up, nor fight; for I am not among you; lest you be defeated before your enemies.'"
So I spoke to you; but you would not listen, but rebelled against the commandment of the LORD, and went presumptuously up into the hill.
And the Amorites, who dwelt in that mountain, came out against you, and chased you as bees do, and destroyed you in Seir, even to Hormah.
And you returned and wept before the LORD; but the LORD would not listen to your voice, nor give ear to you.
So you remained in Kadesh many days, according to the days that you stayed there.
