Woe is me! For I am like those who gather summer fruits, like the gleanings of the vintage: there is no cluster to eat; my soul longs for the early fruit.  
The good person has perished from the earth, and there is no one upright among men; they all lie in wait for blood, hunting every man his brother with a net.  
They engage in evil with both hands earnestly; the prince asks for a bribe, and the judge seeks a reward; the great man expresses his wicked desires, and they wrap it all up.  
The best among them is like a brier; the most upright is sharper than a thorn hedge. The day of your watchmen and your visitation is coming; now shall be their confusion.  
Do not trust in a friend; do not put confidence in a guide. Guard the doors of your mouth from her who lies in your bosom.  
For a son dishonors his father, a daughter rises up against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law; a man's enemies are the members of his own household.  
Therefore, I will look to the LORD; I will wait for the God of my salvation; my God will hear me.  
Do not rejoice over me, O my enemy; when I fall, I shall rise; when I sit in darkness, the LORD will be a light to me.  
I will bear the indignation of the LORD because I have sinned against Him, until He pleads my cause and executes judgment for me; He will bring me forth to the light, and I shall see His righteousness.  
Then my enemy will see it, and shame will cover her who said to me, "Where is the LORD your God?" My eyes will behold her; now she shall be trampled down like the mire of the streets.  
On the day that your walls are to be rebuilt, that day the decree will be far removed.  
On that day, He shall come to you from Assyria, from the fortified cities, from the fortress to the river, from sea to sea, and from mountain to mountain.  
Nevertheless, the land shall be desolate because of those who dwell therein, due to the fruit of their actions.  
Feed your people with your rod, the flock of your heritage, who dwell solitarily in the woods, in the midst of Carmel; let them graze in Bashan and Gilead, as in the days of old.  
As in the days of your coming out of the land of Egypt, I will show him marvelous things.  
The nations shall see and be confounded by all their might; they shall lay their hands upon their mouths, and their ears shall be deaf.  
They shall lick the dust like a serpent; they shall crawl out of their holes like worms of the earth; they shall be afraid of the LORD our God and shall fear because of you.  
Who is a God like you, who pardons iniquity and passes over the transgression of the remnant of His heritage? He does not retain His anger forever because He delights in mercy.  
He will turn again; He will have compassion on us; He will subdue our iniquities, and you will cast all their sins into the depths of the sea.  
You will perform the truth to Jacob and the mercy to Abraham, which you have sworn to our fathers from the days of old.