Am I not an apostle? Am I not free? Have I not seen Jesus Christ our Lord? Are you not my work in the Lord?  
If I am not an apostle to others, yet undoubtedly I am to you; for the seal of my apostleship is you in the Lord.  
My answer to those who examine me is this:  
Do we not have the right to eat and drink?  
Do we not have the right to take along a sister, a wife, like the other apostles, and the brothers of the Lord, and Cephas?  
Or do Barnabas and I alone not have the right to refrain from working?  
Who goes to war at their own expense? Who plants a vineyard and does not eat of its fruit? Or who shepherds a flock and does not partake of the milk of the flock?  
Am I saying these things as a mere man, or does not the law say the same?  
For it is written in the law of Moses, "You shall not muzzle the mouth of the ox that treads out the grain." Does God care for oxen?  
Or does He say this entirely for our sake? For our sake, no doubt, this is written: that he who plows should plow in hope, and he who threshes in hope should be a partaker of his hope.  
If we have sown spiritual things among you, is it too much if we reap your material things?  
If others share in this right over you, should we not have it even more? Nevertheless, we have not exercised this right, but endure all things, lest we hinder the gospel of Christ.  
Do you not know that those who serve in sacred things eat of the things of the temple, and those who wait at the altar share in the altar?  
In the same way, the Lord has commanded that those who preach the gospel should live by the gospel.  
But I have not used any of these rights, nor have I written these things so that it would be done for me; for it would be better for me to die than that anyone should make my boasting void.  
For though I preach the gospel, I have nothing to boast about; for necessity is laid upon me; yes, woe to me if I do not preach the gospel!  
For if I do this willingly, I have a reward; but if against my will, a stewardship of the gospel is entrusted to me.  
What then is my reward? Truly, that when I preach the gospel, I may present the gospel of Christ without charge, so as not to abuse my authority in the gospel.  
For though I am free from all, I have made myself a servant to all, that I might win more.  
To the Jews, I became as a Jew, that I might win the Jews; to those under the law, I became as under the law, that I might win those under the law;  
To those without law, I became as without law (though not being without law toward God, but under the law of Christ), that I might win those without law.  
To the weak, I became weak, that I might win the weak; I have become all things to all people, that by all means I might save some.  
And this I do for the sake of the gospel, that I may share in its blessings with you.  
Do you not know that in a race all the runners run, but only one receives the prize? So run, that you may obtain it.  
And everyone who competes for the prize is temperate in all things. Now they do it to obtain a perishable crown, but we for an imperishable crown.  
Therefore, I run this way, not with uncertainty; thus I fight, not as one who beats the air.  
But I discipline my body and bring it into subjection, lest when I have preached to others, I myself should become disqualified.