Woe to you who plunder, yet you were not plundered; and you act treacherously, while they have not acted treacherously against you! When you cease to plunder, you will be plundered; and when you stop dealing treacherously, they will deal treacherously with you.

O LORD, be gracious to us; we have waited for you: be their strength every morning, our salvation in times of trouble.

At the sound of the uproar, the people fled; at your rising, the nations were scattered.

Your plunder will be gathered like the gathering of the caterpillar: like the swift movement of locusts, he will sweep over them.

The LORD is exalted; for He dwells on high: He has filled Zion with justice and righteousness.

Wisdom and knowledge will be the stability of your times, and the strength of salvation: the fear of the LORD is His treasure.

Behold, their mighty ones will cry out; the ambassadors of peace will weep bitterly.

The highways lie desolate, the traveler ceases: he has broken the covenant, he has despised the cities, he regards no one.

The earth mourns and languishes: Lebanon is ashamed and cut down: Sharon is like a wilderness; and Bashan and Carmel shake off their fruits.

Now I will rise, says the LORD; now I will be exalted; now I will lift myself up.

You will conceive chaff, you will bring forth stubble: your breath, like fire, will consume you.

And the people will be like the burnings of lime: like thorns cut up, they will be burned in the fire.

Hear, you who are far off, what I have done; and you who are near, acknowledge my might.

The sinners in Zion are terrified; fearfulness has seized the hypocrites. Who among us can dwell with the devouring fire? Who among us can dwell with everlasting burnings?

He who walks righteously and speaks uprightly; he who despises the gain of oppression, who shakes his hands from holding bribes, who stops his ears from hearing bloodshed, and shuts his eyes from seeing evil;

He will dwell on high: his place of defense will be the munitions of rocks: bread will be given to him; his waters will be sure.

Your eyes will see the king in his beauty: they will behold the land that is very far off.

Your heart will meditate terror. Where is the scribe? Where is the receiver? Where is he who counted the towers?

You will not see a fierce people, a people of a deeper speech than you can understand; of a stammering tongue that you cannot comprehend.

Look upon Zion, the city of our solemnities: your eyes will see Jerusalem, a quiet habitation, a tabernacle that will not be taken down; not one of its stakes will ever be removed, nor will any of its cords be broken.

But there the glorious LORD will be to us a place of broad rivers and streams; where no galley with oars will go, nor will gallant ships pass by.

For the LORD is our judge, the LORD is our lawgiver, the LORD is our king; He will save us.

Your tackle is loosed; they could not strengthen their mast, they could not spread the sail: then the prey of a great spoil is divided; the lame take the prey.

And the inhabitant will not say, "I am sick": the people who dwell therein will be forgiven their iniquity.