I will love You, O LORD, my strength.  
The LORD is my rock, my fortress, and my deliverer; my God, my strength, in whom I trust; my shield, the horn of my salvation, and my high tower.  
I will call upon the LORD, who is worthy to be praised; so shall I be saved from my enemies.  
The sorrows of death surrounded me, and the floods of ungodly men made me afraid.  
The sorrows of hell encircled me; the snares of death confronted me.  
In my distress, I called upon the LORD and cried out to my God; He heard my voice from His temple, and my cry came before Him, even to His ears.  
Then the earth shook and trembled; the foundations of the hills moved and were shaken because He was angry.  
There went up smoke from His nostrils, and fire from His mouth devoured; coals were kindled by it.  
He bowed the heavens and came down; darkness was under His feet.  
And He rode upon a cherub and flew; yes, He flew on the wings of the wind.  
He made darkness His secret place; His pavilion around Him was dark waters and thick clouds of the skies.  
At the brightness that was before Him, His thick clouds passed, hailstones and coals of fire.  
The LORD also thundered in the heavens, and the Most High gave His voice; hailstones and coals of fire.  
Yes, He sent out His arrows and scattered them; He shot out lightnings and discomfited them.  
Then the channels of waters were seen, and the foundations of the world were uncovered at Your rebuke, O LORD, at the blast of the breath of Your nostrils.  
He sent from above, took me, and drew me out of many waters.  
He delivered me from my strong enemy and from those who hated me; for they were too strong for me.  
They confronted me in the day of my calamity, but the LORD was my support.  
He brought me forth into a large place; He delivered me because He delighted in me.  
The LORD rewarded me according to my righteousness; according to the cleanness of my hands, He recompensed me.  
For I have kept the ways of the LORD and have not wickedly departed from my God.  
For all His judgments were before me, and I did not put away His statutes from me.  
I was also blameless before Him, and I kept myself from my iniquity.  
Therefore, the LORD has recompensed me according to my righteousness, according to the cleanness of my hands in His sight.  
With the merciful, You will show Yourself merciful; with an upright man, You will show Yourself upright.  
With the pure, You will show Yourself pure; and with the devious, You will show Yourself shrewd.  
For You will save the afflicted people, but will bring down haughty looks.  
For You will light my lamp; the LORD my God will enlighten my darkness.  
For by You, I have run through a troop; and by my God, I have leaped over a wall.  
As for God, His way is perfect; the word of the LORD is tested; He is a shield to all who trust in Him.  
For who is God except the LORD? Or who is a rock except our God?  
It is God who girds me with strength and makes my way perfect.  
He makes my feet like the feet of deer and sets me on my high places.  
He teaches my hands to make war, so that a bow of bronze is broken by my arms.  
You have also given me the shield of Your salvation; Your right hand has upheld me, and Your gentleness has made me great.  
You have enlarged my steps under me, so my feet did not slip.  
I have pursued my enemies and overtaken them; neither did I turn back until they were destroyed.  
I have wounded them so that they could not rise; they have fallen under my feet.  
For You have girded me with strength for the battle; You have subdued under me those who rose up against me.  
You have also given me the necks of my enemies, that I might destroy those who hate me.  
They cried out, but there was none to save them; even to the LORD, but He did not answer them.  
Then I beat them as fine as the dust before the wind; I cast them out like dirt in the streets.  
You have delivered me from the strivings of the people; and You have made me the head of the nations; a people I have not known shall serve me.  
As soon as they hear of me, they shall obey me; the foreigners shall submit themselves to me.  
The foreigners shall fade away and be afraid from their strongholds.  
The LORD lives; and blessed be my rock; and let the God of my salvation be exalted.  
It is God who avenges me and subdues the people under me.  
He delivers me from my enemies; yes, You lift me up above those who rise against me; You have delivered me from the violent man.  
Therefore, I will give thanks to You, O LORD, among the nations, and sing praises to Your name.  
Great deliverance He gives to His king and shows mercy to His anointed, to David, and his descendants forevermore.