And it came to pass after this that Absalom, the son of David, had a beautiful sister named Tamar; and Amnon, the son of David, loved her.
Amnon was so distressed that he fell sick for his sister Tamar, for she was a virgin, and Amnon found it difficult to do anything to her.
But Amnon had a friend named Jonadab, the son of Shimeah, David's brother; and Jonadab was a very cunning man.
He said to Amnon, "Why are you, being the king's son, so thin from day to day? Will you not tell me?" And Amnon replied, "I love Tamar, my brother Absalom's sister."
Jonadab said to him, "Lie down on your bed and pretend to be ill. When your father comes to see you, say to him, 'Please let my sister Tamar come and give me something to eat, and let her prepare the food in my sight so that I may see it and eat it from her hand.'"
So Amnon lay down and pretended to be ill. When the king came to see him, Amnon said to the king, "Please let Tamar, my sister, come and make me a couple of cakes in my sight so that I may eat from her hand."
Then David sent home to Tamar, saying, "Go now to your brother Amnon's house and prepare food for him."
So Tamar went to her brother Amnon's house, and he was lying down. She took flour, kneaded it, made cakes in his sight, and baked the cakes.
She took a pan and served them to him, but he refused to eat. Amnon said, "Have everyone leave me." So everyone left him.
Amnon then said to Tamar, "Bring the food into the chamber so that I may eat from your hand." Tamar took the cakes she had made and brought them into the chamber to Amnon, her brother.
When she brought them to him to eat, he grabbed her and said, "Come lie with me, my sister."
She answered him, "No, my brother, do not force me; for no such thing should be done in Israel. Do not commit this folly."
"And where would I carry my shame? And as for you, you would be like one of the fools in Israel. Now therefore, I pray you, speak to the king; he will not withhold me from you."
However, he would not listen to her voice; but being stronger than she, he forced her and lay with her.
Then Amnon hated her exceedingly, so that the hatred he had for her was greater than the love he had for her. Amnon said to her, "Get up and go away."
She said to him, "There is no cause; this evil in sending me away is greater than the other that you did to me." But he would not listen to her.
He then called his servant who attended him and said, "Put this woman out from me and bolt the door after her."
She had a robe of many colors on her, for with such robes were the king's daughters who were virgins dressed. His servant brought her out and bolted the door after her.
Tamar put ashes on her head, tore her robe of many colors that was on her, laid her hand on her head, and went away crying.
Absalom, her brother, said to her, "Has Amnon, your brother, been with you? Hold your peace now, my sister; he is your brother; do not take this thing to heart." So Tamar remained desolate in her brother Absalom's house.
But when King David heard of all these things, he was very angry.
Absalom spoke to his brother Amnon neither good nor bad, for Absalom hated Amnon because he had forced his sister Tamar.
It came to pass after two full years that Absalom had sheep shearers in Baalhazor, which is near Ephraim; and Absalom invited all the king's sons.
Absalom came to the king and said, "Behold now, your servant has sheep shearers; let the king, I beseech you, and his servants go with your servant."
The king said to Absalom, "No, my son, let us not all go now, lest we be a burden to you." But he pressed him; however, he would not go, but blessed him.
Then Absalom said, "If not, please let my brother Amnon go with us." The king said to him, "Why should he go with you?"
But Absalom pressed him until he let Amnon and all the king's sons go with him.
Now Absalom had commanded his servants, saying, "Watch when Amnon's heart is merry with wine, and when I say to you, 'Strike Amnon,' then kill him. Do not fear; have I not commanded you? Be courageous and be valiant."
The servants of Absalom did to Amnon as Absalom had commanded. Then all the king's sons arose, and every man got up on his mule and fled.
While they were on their way, tidings came to David, saying, "Absalom has slain all the king's sons, and not one of them is left."
Then the king arose, tore his garments, and lay on the ground; and all his servants stood by with their clothes torn.
Jonadab, the son of Shimeah, David's brother, answered and said, "Let not my lord suppose that they have slain all the young men, the king's sons; for only Amnon is dead. This has been determined by Absalom from the day he forced his sister Tamar."
"Now therefore, let not my lord the king take the thing to heart, to think that all the king's sons are dead; for only Amnon is dead."
But Absalom fled. The young man who kept watch lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, there came much people by the way of the hillside behind him.
Jonadab said to the king, "Behold, the king's sons are coming; as your servant said, so it is."
As soon as he had finished speaking, behold, the king's sons came and lifted up their voices and wept; and the king and all his servants wept very bitterly.
But Absalom fled and went to Talmai, the son of Ammihud, king of Geshur. And David mourned for his son every day.
So Absalom fled and went to Geshur, and was there for three years.
The soul of King David longed to go forth to Absalom, for he was comforted concerning Amnon, seeing he was dead.
